

aliases: [ "20231003100327",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC275, TestOutServer
date_created: 2023-10-03 10:03

# 5.6 - Implement Hybrid Name Resolution
---
## 5.6.4 Integrate Windows Server DNS with Azure DNS Private Zones Facts

In many modern networks, both Azure and on-premises, DNS servers will need to be used. In these cases, it's important that these systems be able to resolve hostnames and IP addresses with each other, as this allows clients on both the on-premises network and Azure virtual network to communicate with each other.

This lesson covers hybrid name resolution.
### Hybrid Name Resolution
In a hybrid network that consists of an on-premises network and an Azure networked environment, DNS zones must be properly configured so the networks can communicate with each other. In these hybrid network environments, there are two types of DNS servers used:

- On-premises DNS Server – This server acts as the resolver for on-premises clients.
- Azure DNS – This is the resolver for Azure virtual network clients. Azure DNS is set up in private zones, which means it can only be queried by devices within its virtual network.

Because the Azure DNS cannot be queried by outside clients by default, Azure DNS needs to be configured to allow it and the on-premises DNS server to resolve queries with each other.

One option is to configure a DNS private resolver in Azure.

- To configure the private resolver, two subnets are configured in Azure. Azure DNS will use these subnets to send and receive DNS data with the on-premises DNS server. One of the subnets acts as the outbound endpoint, and the other subnet acts as the inbound endpoint.
- The next step is to create forwarding rules that allow the Azure DNS to communicate with the on-premises DNS server.
- The final step is to create a conditional forwarder on the on-premises DNS server to allow it to communicate with Azure DNS.

To ensure that the connection between Azure DNS and the on-premises DNS server is secure and encrypted, a VPN or Azure's ExpressRoute should be utilized.

