
---
aliases: [ "20221230204039",  ]
tags: C++, Programming, aTourofC++
date_created: 2022-12-30 20:40
---
[[C++ Index]]
# 1.6 C++ Constants
---
## What is a constant
- A constant is an object with an unchangeable state
	- This is called an immutable object
### How to Define a Constant
>[! tip] Defining a Constant
>Two Methods
>>[! def] const
>>This roughly means that "I promise not to change this value". This is used to specify interfaces so that the data can be passed to functions using pointers and references without fear of it being modified.
>>- The compiler enforces the promise made by const. The value of const may be calculated at runtime.
>---
>>[! def] constexpr
>>This means "to be evaluated at compile time". This is used primarily to specify constants, to allow placement of data in read-only memory (where it is unlikely to be corrupted) and for performance. The value of constexpr must be calculated by the compiler 

#### Simple Examples
```cpp
// dmv is a named constant
constexpr int dmv = 17;

 // sqv is a named constant, possibly computed at run time
const double sqv = sqrt(var);

int var = 17;                      // var is not a constant
vector<double> v {1.2, 3.4, 4.5};  // v is not a constant

// sum will not modify its argument (§1.7)
double sum(const vector<double>&);

// OK: sum(v) is evaluated at run time
const double s1 = sum(v);

// error: sum(v) is not a constant expression
constexpr double s2 = sum(v);
```
---
## Constant Expressions
- A constant expression is an expression that will be evaluated by the compiler
	- It MUST be defined by `constexpr` or `consteval`
#### Examples
```cpp
constexpr double square(double x){return x * x}

// OK: 1.4 * square(17) is a constant expression
constexpr double max1 = 1.4 * square(17);

// error: var is not a constant, so square(var) is not a constant
constexpr double max2 = 1.4 * square(var);

// OK: may be evaluated at run time
const double max3 = 1.4 * square(var);
```
### constexpr VS consteval
- A `constexpr` function can be used for non-constant arguments, but when that is done the result is not a constant expression. 
- We allow a `constexpr` function to be called with non-constant-expression arguments in contexts that do not require constant expressions. That way, we don’t have to define essentially the same function twice: once for constant expressions and once for variables.
	- When we want a function to be used only for evaluation at compile time, we declare it `consteval` rather than `constexpr`. For example:
```cpp
consteval double square2(double x) { return x * x; }

// OK: 1.4 * square(17) is a constant expression
constexpr double max1 = 1.4 * square2(17);

// error: var is not a constant
const double max3 = 1.4 * square2(var);
```
---
## Pure Functions
- functions declared as `consteval` or `constexpr` are C++'s version of pure functions
- They can not have side effects and can only use information passed to them as arguments
	- IN PARTICULAR, they can not modify non-local variables, but they can have loops and use their own local variables

### Importance of immutable functions 
- In a few places, constant expressions are required by language rules (e.g., array bounds (§1.7), case labels (§1.8), template value arguments (§7.2), and constants declared using `constexpr`)
- In other cases, compile-time evaluation is important for performance