
---
aliases: [ "20230910161349",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC.275, TestOutServer
date_created: 2023-09-10 16:13
---
# 2.5 - Windows Server Configuration and Management
---
## 2.5.3 - Windows Server Configuration and Management Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:
- Server Manager considerations
- Running Server Manager
- Managing the console
- Managing the local server
- Managing remote servers

Windows Server provides a management console that provides administrators a way to manage remote servers from a client computer or a local server. Server Manager does not require access to the physical servers and does not require the use of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).

### Server Manager Considerations
Consider the following when determining whether to use Server Manager:
- Server Manager is built into the Remote Server Administration Tools.
- Depending on the server load and the amount of data transferred, Server Manager can support up to 100 servers.  
- Server Manager is installed and enabled by default with the Windows Server (2016 and beyond) operating system. There are no additional hardware requirements beyond the requirements for Windows Server.  
- The Server Manager console can only be used to manage Windows Servers, not to manage a local or remote client machine.  

### Running Server Manager
Use the following steps to start Server Manager from a client computer:
1. Install **Remote Server Administration Tools** on your Windows client. 
2. Access the **Server Management tile** on your Start screen. If you cannot view the **Server Management** tile after installation, verify that your **Show administrative tools** setting has been enabled. This option can be found by hovering your mouse over the right corner of the **Start** screen and selecting **Settings**.  
3. Open the **add Servers** dialog box.
4. Add the servers you wish to manage using one of the following methods:
    - Use Active Directory Domain Services to add a server located on the same domain as the local computer.
    - Use DNS to search for a server by name or IP address.  
    - Import multiple servers using a file that lists each computer’s name and IP address.  

### Managing the Console
You can configure the following on the local Server Manager:

- Set refresh limitations (These settings will apply to all servers. You cannot apply different refresh intervals for different servers or groups.)
- Add or remove roles or features 
- Prevent Server Manager from opening automatically at logon 
- Create server groups
- Manage roles

### Managing the Local Server
If you are running Server Manager on a local server, you can use the Properties tile on the Local Server page to review and manage several settings. The following chart indicates the setting, a description, and where a user is directed when clicking on the hypertext value of the setting:

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
|Setting|Description|Link|
|Computer name|Computer name|Opens the **System Properties** dialog box|
|Time zone|Local server’s time zone|Opens the **Date and time** dialog box|
|Domain or workgroup|Domain or workgroup that the local server is a member of|Opens the **System Properties** dialog box|
|Windows Firewall|Status of Windows Firewall for the local server|Opens the **System Properties** dialog box|
|Remote management|Windows Server Manager and PowerShell remote management status|Opens the **Configure remote management** dialog box|
|Hardware information|Local server manufacturer, model name, and number|Read-only field - No link|
|Total disk space|Amount of available disk space on the local server|Read-only field - No link|
|Installed memory|Amount of available RAM on the local server|Read-only field - No link|
|Processors|Information about a local server’s processor (manufacturer, speed, model)|Read-only field - No link|
|Operating system version|Windows operating system version running on the local server|Read-only field - No link|
|Windows Update|Windows Update settings for the local server|Opens the **Control Panel\System and Security\Windows Update**|
|Product ID|Windows activation status and product ID number<br><br>The product ID number is not the same as the Product Key.|Opens Windows Activation dialog box|

The properties displayed using the **Local Server Properties** tile only apply to the local server.
### Managing Remote Servers

Server Manager can be used to complete the following tasks on the remote server:
- Restart remote servers.
- Add remote servers and groups of servers to the server pool.
- Install and uninstall features, roles, and role services.
- Edit server roles and features for remote and local servers.
- Start management tools.
- Perform management tasks.
- Analyze and troubleshoot potential problems.
- Identify failures and other critical events.
- Export Server Manager settings to computers running the same version of Server Manager.

---
