
---
aliases: [ "20230910194032",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC.275, TestOutServer
date_created: 2023-09-10 19:40
---
# 2.7 - Remote Management Options
---
## 2.7 - Remote Management Options
As you study this section, answer the following questions:
- How does Remote Desktop software differ from terminal emulation software?
- How can you use Remote Desktop solutions for troubleshooting and technical support within an organization?
- Under what circumstances would you install a remote gateway?

In this section, you will learn to:
- Use Remote Desktop
- Allow Remote Desktop Connections

The key terms for this section include:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Term|Definition|
|Remote Desktop|A Windows utility that displays the graphical user interface of a remote device. You can use Remote Desktop solutions to remotely manage a computer or allow support personnel to view and troubleshoot a remote user's system.|

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Exam|Objective|
|TestOut Hybrid Server Pro: Core|4.4 Manage Remote Access<br><br>- Allow Remote Desktop Connections|

---
## 2.7.4 Remote Management Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
- Remote Desktop
- Remote Desktop protocols
- Remote Desktop Gateway (RD Gateway)
- RD Gateway configuration
- RD Gateway guidelines

### Remote Desktop
_Remote Desktop_ is a tool that allows access to the graphical desktop environment of another Windows client system over a network connection.

Technical support staff can use Remote Desktop to configure, manage, and troubleshoot client desktops. Mobile workers can also use it to access and use corporate network resources. With Remote Desktop:

- The remote host (called the server) is left running and ready to accept a connection.
- The client establishes the connection and logs on.
- The client computer can run programs, make configuration changes, or access data on the host computer.

Instead of showing a simple command-line interface, Remote Desktop displays the graphical user interface of a remote device. You can use Remote Desktop solutions to remotely manage a computer, or allow support personnel to view and troubleshoot a remote user's system. Remote Desktop software typically has the following three components:

- The server software runs on the target desktop.
- The client (or viewer) software runs on a remote system. When you run the client software, you see the desktop of the server system.
    - The server executes the actions performed on the client. The actions modify data on the server and result in changes to the desktop.
    - The desktop changes are transferred and displayed on the client.
- The remote desktop protocol is optimized to minimize the amount of traffic generated by this exchange.

### Remote Desktop Protocols
Remote desktop connections can use multiple protocols.

- Virtual Network Computing (VNC) was originally developed for UNIX. Applications using VNC include RealVNC, TightVNC, UltraVNC, and Vine Server.
- Independent computing architecture (ICA) with HDX (High-definition experience) is the protocol used by Citrix products (XenApp, XenDesktop, NetScaler Gateway, etc.). ICA/HDX uses TCP and UDP port 1494 and 2598 for Session Reliability.
- The remote desktop protocol (RDP) is the protocol developed by Microsoft and used in Microsoft Remote Desktop Services and Remote Assistance solutions. Aqua Connect has licensed RDP and created a version for macOS Server. RDP uses TCP and UDP port 3389.

Most remote desktop protocols support the following features:

- Client software for a variety of operating systems.
- Server software for a limited number of operating systems.
- The ability to show a remote desktop in a browser without installing client software.
- The redirection of printing, sound, or storage from the server to devices connected to the client.

### RD Gateway
RD Gateway is a role service that allows users with the Remote Desktop Connection client and an internet connection to securely access computers on an internal network.

- RD Gateway enables connections to Remote Desktop Session Hosts and connections to other computers running Remote Desktop.
- RD Gateway encrypts the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) data using SSL over HTTP. This means that Remote Desktop communications use port 443, a port that is already allowed through most firewalls. This enables the remote connection without having to configure a separate VPN connection.
- RD Gateway restricts access to computers on the private network that is running RDP. Additionally, you can further restrict access to specific servers.

### RD Gateway Configuration
To configure access using RD Gateway.

- Obtain an SSL certificate for the RD Gateway server.
    - The subject name in the certificate must match the name of the server that has the RD Gateway role service installed.
    - The RD Gateway must be configured with a certificate that is issued from a certificate authority (CA) that is trusted by the client computers.
- Add the RD Gateway role service to a Windows Server 2016 server.
    - In a production deployment, the RD Gateway server will have a connection to both the internet and the private network.
    - The RD Gateway server typically does not run the Remote Desktop Session Host role service.
    - The RD Gateway server must be a domain member if it uses Active Directory accounts in an RD Connection Authorization Policy (CAP) or RD Remote Authorization Policy (RAP), or if you are using a load-balanced RD Gateway server farm.
- Make sure the following services are added if necessary:
    - Remote Procedure Call (RPC) over HTTP Proxy
    - IIS 7.5
    - Network Policy and Access Services with the Network Policy Server (NPS) role service
- Open port 443 in the external firewall and port 3389 (or the custom port you specified in the RD RAP) in the internal firewall.

### RD Gateway Policies
The RD Gateway server controls access to resources on the private network using the following policies.

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Policy Type|Description|
|Connection and Authorization Policy (RD CAP)|A Connection Authorization Policy identifies the users who can establish a connection through the RD Gateway server. The policy can restrict access based on:<br><br>- User group membership.<br>- Computer group membership.<br>- Supported authentication method (either password or smart card.)|
|Remote Authorization Policy (RD RAP)|A Remote Authorization Policy identifies the internal resources that users can access. The policy restricts access:<br><br>- Based on user group membership.<br>- For specific groups of computers (identifies computers to which access is allowed).<br>- On specific ports, either 3389, a custom port, or a port range.|

### RD Gateway Guidelines
When using RD Gateway, be aware of the following:

- The RD Gateway role service can be installed only on a server running Windows Server 2008 R2 or higher.
- To take advantage of the new RD Gateway functionality, client computers require Remote Desktop Connection version 7.0 or later.
- You can use RD Gateway to access internal computers that are running Remote Desktop.
- Terminal servers running either Windows Server 2003 or Windows Server 2008 are accessible through RD Gateway (for existing functionality only).
- If you have multiple RD Gateway servers in a load-balanced solution, you can set up an RD Gateway server farm.
- You can use the RD Gateway Manager to configure RD CAPs and RD RAPs, join the server to an RD Gateway server farm, or monitor client connections.
- To centralize RD CAPs and RD RAPs, you can configure the RD Gateway server to use an NPS server that is configured as a RADIUS server.
- On the client computer, use the name or IP address of the Remote Desktop session host you want to connect to.
---
