

aliases: [ "20230926093701",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC203, TestOutSec
date_created: 2023-09-26 09:37
# 5.5 - Virtual Private Networks
---
## 5.5.6 - VPN Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
- VPN basics
- VPN and wireless networks

### VPN Basics
A virtual private network (VPN) is a remote-access connection that uses encryption to securely send data over an untrusted network. By using a VPN, you can take advantage of an existing internet connection to securely communicate between devices. When working with VPNs, consider the following:

- A VPN provides an alternative to:
    - WAN connections
    - Connections that use telephone lines and a remote access server
- VPNs work by using a Tunneling Protocol that encrypts packet contents and encapsulates those packets.
    - The encapsulated packets are routed through the internet using the information in the packet header.
    - When the packet reaches the destination device, the outer wrapping encapsulating the packets and the encryption is removed.
    - Only the destination device is allowed to remove the wrapping and restore the packet to its original form.
- The following are two styles of VPN tunnels commonly used:
    - Full tunnel, which routes all of a user's network traffic through the VPN tunnel. This can sometimes send traffic that is not necessary.
    - Split tunnel, which routes only certain types of traffic, usually determined by destination IP address, through the VPN tunnel. All other traffic is passed through the normal internet connection.
- VPNs can be implemented in the following ways:
    - A host-to-host VPN allows an individual host connected to the internet to establish a VPN connection to another host on the internet. Both devices must be configured for a VPN connection and have the software to encrypt and encapsulate the packets.
    - A site-to-site VPN uses routers on the edge of each site. The routers are configured for a VPN connection and encrypt and decrypt the packets being passed between the sites. With this configuration, individual hosts are unaware of the VPN.
    - A remote-access VPN uses a server (called a VPN concentrator) configured to accept VPN connections from individual hosts.
        - The VPN concentrator is located on the edge of a network.
        - The VPN concentrator establishes multiple connections with multiple hosts.
        - The individual hosts must be able to establish a VPN connection.
        - The hosts can access resources on the VPN server or the private network using the VPN connection.
    - An always-on VPN employs the concept that a user is always on the VPN, whether physically within the LAN or remotely. There is no turning it on or off. All traffic is basically fully tunneled.
- Tunnel endpoints are devices that can encrypt and decrypt packets. When you create a VPN, you establish a security association between the two tunnel endpoints. These endpoints create a secure virtual communication channel. Only the destination tunnel endpoint can unwrap packets and decrypt the packet contents.
- Routers use the decrypted packet headers to deliver the packet to the destination device. Intermediate routers along the path cannot read the encrypted packet contents.

When implementing a VPN, be sure to:

- Select a protocol that is supported by all devices that need to encrypt and encapsulate packets.
- Open the appropriate ports to allow VPN traffic through the firewall.
### VPN and Wireless Networks
VPNs can also be used to help secure connections made over open wireless networks. Many establishments, such as airports, hotels, and restaurants, provide unsecured public Wi-Fi access. Because encryption is not used to secure the wireless connection, many users are hesitant to use these networks. In most cases, this hesitancy is warranted. However, it is generally considered acceptable to use a VPN connection to securely transfer data over an open Wi-Fi network. As long as strong tunneling ciphers and protocols are used, the VPN provides sufficient encryption to secure the connection even though the wireless network itself is not encrypted. It is recommended that you use IPsec or SSL to secure the VPN because these protocols are relatively secure. Avoid using PPTP with MS-CHAPv2 as this configuration setup is no longer considered secure.

If you are using a VPN over an open wireless network and need to access a secure website, be sure your browser's HTTPS requests go through the VPN connection. To conserve VPN bandwidth and improve latency, many VPN solutions automatically reroute web browsing traffic through the client's default network connection instead of through the VPN tunnel. This behavior would result in HTTP/HTTPS traffic being transmitted over the insecure open wireless network instead of through the secure VPN tunnel.

---
## 5.5.7 - VPN Protocol Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
- VPN Tunneling Protocol
- VPN protocol comparison
### VPN Tunneling Protocol
A VPN uses a Tunneling Protocol that encrypts packet contents and wraps them in an unencrypted packet. The Tunneling Protocol (also referred to as the VPN Protocol) identifies the methods that devices use to establish the VPN connection and encrypt the data. The three types of protocols used by VPNs are:
- Carrier Protocol (such as IP).
- Tunneling Protocol (such as PPTP or L2TP).
- Passenger Protocol (for the data being transmitted).

Many networks make use of a piece of hardware called a VPN concentrator. VPN concentrators are advanced routers that can create and maintain many secure connections to the network through VPN tunnels.
### VPN Protocol Comparison
The following table compares the common VPN tunneling protocols.

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Protocol|Description|
|Point-to-Point Tunneling|Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) was one of the first VPN protocols and was developed by Microsoft.  <br>  <br>PPTP does the following:<br><br>- Uses standard authentication protocols, such as Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) or Password Authentication Protocol (PAP)<br>- Supports TCP/IP only<br>- Encapsulates other LAN protocols and carries the data securely over an IP network<br>- Uses Microsoft's MPPE for data encryption<br>- Is supported by most operating systems and servers<br>- Uses TCP port 1723|
|Layer 2 Forwarding|Layer 2 Forwarding (L2F) is a VPN technology developed by Cisco that:<br><br>- Operates at the Data Link layer (Layer 2)<br>- Offers mutual authentication<br>- Does not encrypt data<br>- Merged with PPTP to create L2TP|
|Layer 2 Tunneling|Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP) is an open standard for secure multi-protocol routing.<br><br>L2TP does the following:<br><br>- Operates at the Data Link layer (Layer 2)<br>- Supports multiple protocols (not just IP)<br>- Uses IPsec for encryption. Combining L2TP with IPsec (called L2TP/IPsec) provides:<br>    - Per-packet data-origin authentication (non-repudiation)<br>    - Replay protection<br>    - Data confidentiality<br>- Is not supported by older operating systems<br>- Uses TCP port 1701 and UDP port 500|
|Internet Protocol Security|Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) provides authentication and encryption, and it can be used in conjunction with L2TP or by itself as a VPN solution. IPsec includes two protocols that provide different features.<br><br>- Authentication Header (AH) provides authentication features. Use AH to enable authentication with IPsec.<br>- Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) provides data encryption. Use ESP to encrypt data.<br><br>If you use AH alone, data is not encrypted.<br><br>IPsec has two modes of operation. They are based on the relationship of the communicating devices to each other.<br><br>- Transport Mode is used for end-to-end encryption of data. The packet data is protected, but the header is left intact, allowing intermediary devices (such as routers) to examine the packet header and use the information in routing packets.<br>- Tunnel Mode is used for link-to-link communications. Both the packet contents and the header are encrypted.<br><br>IPsec can be used to secure communications such as:<br><br>- Host-to-host communications within a LAN<br>- VPN communications through the internet, either by itself or in conjunction with the L2TP VPN Protocol<br>- Any traffic supported by the IP protocol, including web, email, Telnet, file transfer, SNMP traffic, and countless others<br><br>Be aware of the following additional characteristics of IPsec:<br><br>- It functions at the Network layer (Layer 3) of the OSI model<br>- It uses either digital certificates or pre-shared keys<br>- It generally can't be used when a NAT proxy is deployed|
|Secure Sockets Layer|The Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Protocol has long been used to secure traffic generated by other IP protocols, such as HTTP, FTP, and email. SSL can also be used as a VPN solution, typically in a remote-access scenario.<br><br>SSL does the following:<br><br>- Authenticates the server to the client using public key cryptography and digital certificates<br>- Encrypts the entire communication session<br>- Uses port 443, which is a port that is often already open in most firewalls<br><br>Implementations that use SSL for VPN tunneling include Microsoft's SSTP and Cisco's SSL VPN.|
|Transport Layer Security|The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol works in a similar way to SSL, even though they are not interoperable. When securing a connection with a VPN, TLS:<br><br>- Authenticates the server to the client, using public key cryptography and digital certificates<br>- Encrypts the entire communication session<br>- Uses port 443 or port 30|

---
