

aliases: [ "20230926121649",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC203, TestOutSec
date_created: 2023-09-26 12:16

# 5.7 - Network Access Control
---
## 5.7.2 Network Access Control Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
- NAC overview
- NAC agent types
- NAC process

### NAC Overview
Network access control (NAC) is a policy-driven control process that allows or denies network access to devices connecting to a network. For example, you may want to have policies that require connecting devices to meet certain criteria, such as having a particular version of Windows, the latest antivirus definitions, or Windows firewall enabled.

NAC is often integrated with automatic remediation systems, which helps bring a computer into compliance when NAC discovers missing requirements. When such a system is used, a connecting device only has access to resources that can resolve or remediate the issues. After the issues have been remediated, the device is reevaluated and then allowed to access network resources, like the internet or databases.

NAC is not a product but a process. However, several companies implement products that utilizes the NAC process. For example, Cisco has a solution called Identity Services Engine (ISE), and Microsoft has Network Access Protection (NAP). Each is a framework that provides protection against unauthorized access or rogue system access to a protected network. The distinction and implementation between products is vendor-specific.

The NAC process is usually accomplished using a two-stage process of authentication and authorization. If the requirements for either of these stages is not met, the access request is denied. This if often referred to as zero-trust security, meaning nothing is trusted unless it can pass both the authentication and authorization stages.

- Authentication defines all the prerequisites a device must meet in to access the network. This criteria is detailed for such things as anti-malware, OS, patch level, and so on.
- Authorization looks at the authentication information and applies the appropriate policies to provide the device with the access it’s defined to receive.  
    

### NAC Agent Types
Before a device can connect to the production network, it must go through a health check. This health check is performed by specific software designed solely for this purpose, often known as an agent. A NAC agent can be one of the following types:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Type|Description|
|Permanent|The agent resides on a device permanently. This is the most convenient agent since it does not have to be renewed and can always run on the device. It is also known as a persistent agent.|
|Dissolvable|The agent is downloaded, or a temporary connection is established. It is removed once the user is done with it. The user has to download or connect to the agent again if needed.|
|Agentless|The agent is on the domain controller. When the user logs into the domain, it authenticates with the network. Agentless NAC is often used when there is limited disk space, such as for Internet of Things (IoT) devices.|

### NAC Process
NAC is a complicated process that requires forethought. Use the following process when implementing NAC:

- Plan - A committee should convene and make decisions that define how NAC should work.
- Define - The roles, identities, and permissions (policies) must be defined.
- Apply - Once defined, the polices must be applied.
- Review/Revise - As business needs change, the process must be reviewed to determine whether changes are required.  
    
---
