
---
aliases: [ "20230502140830",  ]
tags: SEC.201, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-05-02 14:08
---
[[SEC.201 Index]]
# 17.1 - Devices in a Small Network
---
## Small Network Topologies
- The majority of businesses are small most of the business networks are also small
- A small network design is usually simple
- Small networks typically have a single WAN connection provided by DSL, cable or an Ethernet Connection
- Large networks require an IT department to maintain, secure, and troubleshoot network devices and to protect organizational data. Small networks are managed by a local IT technician or by a contracted professional

### Device Selection for a Small network
- Like large networks, small networks require planning and design to meet user requirements. Planning ensures that all requirements, cost factors, and deployment options are given due consideration. One of the first design considerations is the type of intermediary devices to use to support the network

- Factors that must be considered when selecting network devices include:
	- Cost
	- Speed and types of ports/interfaces
	- Expandability
	- Operating system features and services

### IP Addressing for a Small Network
- When implementing a network, create an Ip addressing scheme and use it. All hosts and devices within an internetwork must have a unique address. Devices that will factor into the IP addressing scheme include the following:
	- End User Devices - The number and type of connections (IE, wired, wireless, remote access)
	- Servers and peripheral devices 
	- Intermediary devices including switches and access points

- It is recommended that you plan, document, and maintain an IP addressing scheme based on a device type. The use of a planned IP addressing scheme makes it easier to identify a type of device to troubleshoot problems

#### Redundancy in small networks
- In order to maintain a high degree of reliability, redundancy is required in network design. Redundancy helps to eliminate single points of failure.
- Redundancy can be accomplished by installing duplicate equipment. It can also be accomplished by supplying duplicate network links for critical areas

#### Traffic Management
- The goal for a good network design is to enhance the productivity of the employees and minimize network downtime
- The routers and switches in a small network should be configured to support real-time traffic, such as voice and video in an appropriate manner relative to other data traffic. A good network design will implement quality of service (QOS)
- Priority queuing has four queues. The high priority queue is always emptied first