
---
aliases: [ "20230502142935",  ]
tags: SEC.201, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-05-02 14:29
---
[[SEC.201 Index]]
# 17.2 - Small Network Applications and Protocols
---
## Common Applications
- After you have set it up, your network still needs certain types of applications and protocols in order to work. The network is only as useful as the applications that are on it
- There are two forms of software programs or processes that provide access to the network:
	- **Network Applications**
		- Applications that implement application layer protocols and are able to communicate directly with the lower layers of the protocol stack
	- **Application Layer Services**
		- For applications that are not network-aware, the programs that interface with the network and prepare the data for transfer

## Common Protocols
- Network protocols support the applications and services used by employees in a small network:
	- Telnet and SSH
	- Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and HTTPS
	- Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) and Post Office Protocol (POP3)
	- IMAP
	- FTP, SFTP
	- DHCP
	- DNS

## Voice and Video Applications
- Businesses today are increasingly using IP telephony and streaming media to communicate with customers and business partners, as well as enabling their employees to work remotely.
- The network administrator must ensure the proper equipment is installed in the network and that the network devices are configured to ensure priority delivery.

- The factors that a small network administrator must consider when supporting real-time applications:
	- **Infrastructure** - Does it have the capacity and capability to support real-time applications?
	- **VoIP** - VoIP is typically less expensive than IP Telephony, but at the cost of quality and features.
	- **IP Telephony** - This employs dedicated servers form call control and signaling.
	- **Real-Time Applications** - The network must support Quality of Service (QoS) mechanisms to minimize latency issues. Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) and Real-Time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP) and two protocols that support real-time applications.

