
---
aliases: [ "20230204144952",  ]
tags: SEC.201, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-02-04 14:49
---
[[SEC.201 Index]]
# 2.5 - Save Configurations
---
## Configuration Files
- There are two system files that store the device configuration
	- stored on the flash or NVRAM
**startup-config**
- This is the saved configuration that is stored in NVRAM. It contains all the commands that will be used on device upon startup or reboot. It does not lose its contents on reboot
**running-config**
- This is stored in Random Access Memory (RAM). It reflects the current configuration. Modifying a running config file affects the operation of a Cisco device immediately. RAM is volatile. It loses its content when powered off or restarted 
>[! example] Save running config
>```
>Router# copy running-config startup-config
>```

## Alter the Running Configurations
- IF you do not like the changes you have made to the running configuration, you can use the `reload` command to restore the device to startup config
- If undesired changes were saved to the start-up config, you can use the `erase startup-config` to erase the startup config

## Capture Config to a Text File
- config files can also be  saved and archived to a text document
**Step 1:**
- Open terminal emulation software such as PuTTY or Tera Term, that is already connected to a switch
**Step 2:**
- Enable login in to the terminal software and assign a name and file location to save the log file. The figure displays that `all session output` will be captured to the file specified
**Step 3:**
- Execute the `show running-config` or `show startup-config` command at the privileged EXEC prompt
- text displayed in the terminal window will be placed into the chosen file
**Step 4:**
- Disable logging in the terminal software. The figure shows how to disable login by choosing the `None` session option