

aliases: [ "20230925170752",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC203, TestOutServer
date_created: 2023-09-25 17:07

# 4.5 - DHCP Relay
---
## 4.5.3 - DHCP Relay Facts
A Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) relay agent facilitates the proper routing of DHCP request packets when the DHCP server is on a different subnet than the DHCP client.

This lesson covers the following topics:
- DHCP relay agent
- Internet Protocol (IP) helper

### DHCP Relay Agent
When a device first connects to a network, it sends out a DHCP discover packet. This packet is a User Datagram Protocol (UDP) broadcast sent out on port 67 to all devices on the network asking if there's a DHCP server available. When the DHCP server is on a different network, the router drops the packet because routers do not forward broadcast packets to other networks.

A DHCP relay agent is a network device you can use to forward DHCP requests to a DHCP server located on a separate network or subnet. When using a DHCP relay agent, the DHCP request process is as follows:

1. The DHCP relay agent receives the broadcast message and converts the packet into a unicast message. The relay agent uses its IP address as the source IP.
    - The relay adds the Gateway IP Address (GIADDR) field that defines the gateway (or network) the client belongs to.
    - The GIADDR tells the DHCP server the pool of addresses to use when assigning an IP address to the client.
2. The relay agent sends the unicast packet to the DHCP server located on another network.
3. The DHCP server receives the DHCP discover packet and sends a DHCP offer packet to the relay agent.
4. The relay agent puts the DHCP information into a DHCP broadcast packet and sends it to the client on UDP port 68 on the local network.
5. The client processes the DHCP information and sends the DHCP request packet to the relay agent which then forwards it on to the DHCP server.
6. The server returns the DHCP ACK packet and the relay agent forwards it to the client.

The relay agent acts as a middle-person for the DHCP process.

### IP Helper
The IP helper performs the same actions as a DHCP relay agent for other UDP-based protocols, such as Network Time Protocol (NTP). As with DHCP relay, the IP helper forwards to servers that are located on a different network or subnet. The process that takes place is identical when forwarding the UDP packets.

The terms IP helper and DHCP relay agent are often used interchangeably, but they are two separate concepts.  

---
