

aliases: [ "20230925170911",  ]
tags: SEC, SEC203, TestOutServer
date_created: 2023-09-25 17:09

# 4.9 - IP Address Management (IPAM)
---
## 4.9.2 - IPAM Facts
When working in a large environment, consider using IP Address Management (IPAM) to help manage DHCP and DNS servers. IPAM provides automated IP address infrastructure discovery. It discovers, monitors, audits, and manages a network's IP address space by discovering domain controllers, DHCP servers, and DNS servers.

You can specify the servers you want to actively manage with IPAM. IPAM can monitor managed DHCP and DNS servers to detail how IP addresses are used in the organization.

This lesson covers the following topics:
- IPAM implementation and installation
- IPAM irovisioning
- The IPAM database
- Server discovery
- IP address blocks

### IPAM Implementation and Installation
Before you install IPAM, make sure the hardware and software supports the way you plan to use IPAM.

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Hardware/ Software|Description|
|IPAM server|Considerations for an IPAM server include:<br><br>- The IPAM server must be running either Standard or Datacenter edition of Windows Server 2012 or later.<br>- The server must be a member of the domain.<br>- The server can't be a domain controller.<br>- You can use the Add Roles and Features wizard to install the (IPAM) server.<br>- IPAM should be the only role on the server if possible.|
|IPAM client|Considerations for an IPAM client include:<br><br>- The IPAM client is optional. It allows you to manage IPAM from a computer other than the one IPAM is installed on.<br>- You can install the IPAM client on Windows Server 2012 or later, or a computer with Remote Server Administration Tools installed.|
|IPAM managed server|Considerations for an IPAM managed server include:<br><br>- All servers running IPAM must have Windows 2008 or later.<br>- Server 2016 can manage servers in other forests that have two-way trusts.|

### IPAM Provisioning
You must configure a server monitored by IPAM to allow the IPAM server to connect to its services. This process is called provisioning and it creates the IPAM database on the IPAM server. Provisioning tasks you must complete on monitored servers include:

- Configure firewall rules
- Add security groups to local server permissions
- Share local folders

You can provision the IPAM server either manually or through Group Policy. Because the provisioning steps are extensive and vary depending on the roles installed on each server, using Group Policy is the preferred provisioning method.

When using Group Policy provisioning, you are prompted to supply a GPO prefix name. Three GPOs are created during the provisioning process using the prefix you specify:

- (prefix)_DHCP—sets settings to collect data from and manage DHCP servers.
- (prefix)_DNS—sets settings needed for the IPAM server to collect data from DNS servers.
- (prefix)_DC_NPS—sets settings needed for the IPAM server to collect data from domain controllers and network policy servers (NPS).

### The IPAM Database
You can use the default Windows Internal Database (WID) for the IPAM database, or you can use a Microsoft SQL server. If you use the Microsoft SQL database, it can be on the same server as the IPAM feature or on a different server.

When using a Microsoft SQL server, you need the:

- SQL server name
- Database name
- Port number

If you are use a Microsoft SQL server, you will also need credentials to the SQL database.

### Server Discovery
When you configure server discovery, you are defining the servers that the IPAM server can monitor and manage. An IPAM server can monitor and manage multiple domains and multiple forests if two-way trusts are configured.

After IPAM is provisioned, you need to configure server discovery. This task searches for domain controllers, DHCP servers, DNS servers, and NPS servers. It automatically adds them to the IPAM console. However, before the server discovery can work properly, you must specify the domains and forests that the IPAM server should search.

The initial server discovery depends on the size of the network. During discovery, a status dialog displays. After the initial server discovery, IPAM conducts one server discovery once per day by default.

### IP Address Blocks
With IPAM, IP spaces are grouped together into IP addresses, IP ranges, and IP blocks. The IP ranges are groups of IP addresses; blocks are groups of IP ranges.

The IP address information managed by IPAM is organized into a hierarchy as follows:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Unit|Description|
|IP address space|The IP address space is the highest level in the IPAM address hierarchy; it contains all other organizational nodes. IPAM automatically assigns IPv4 address blocks to private or public IP address spaces.|
|IP address blocks|Each IP address space is organized into segments called IP address blocks. IPAM automatically assigns IP address ranges to the appropriate IP address blocks. By default, IPAM summarizes IP address utilization statistics at the address block level using information from the address ranges contained within each block.  <br>  <br>If necessary, you can add, edit, and delete IP address blocks. It is recommended that you design IP address blocks around the IPv4 subnets and IPv6 network prefixes deployed in the network.|
|IP address ranges|IP address ranges are subdivisions of an IP address block. IP address ranges are usually DHCP scopes or static IP address pools that are used to assign IP addresses to network hosts. IPAM automatically gathers utilization statistics for IP address ranges from scopes on managed DHCP servers.  <br>  <br>You can create IP address range groups to customize the way IP addresses are organized. For example, you can organize addresses by business unit or geographic location.|
|IP addresses|The IP address inventory is a built-in group that organizes IP addresses by device type.|

---
## 4.9.13 - IPAM DNS and DHCP Facts
Once IP Address Management (IPAM) is set up and running, you can use the IPAM console to choose the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) servers and Domain Name System (DNS) servers. You can edit the properties and the options of those servers. Most IPAM management tasks are the same management tasks you perform for normal DHCP servers and DNS servers.  
  
The details of how DHCP and DNS works are covered in previous lessons. The objectives in this lesson focus on the DHCP and DNS features you can configure and manage with IPAM.

This lesson covers the following topics:
- Configure DHCP scopes and options
- Configure DHCP policies
- Configure DHCP failover
- Manage a DNS server with IPAM
- Manage DNS records and zones

### Configure DHCP Scopes and Options
You can manage DHCP servers after you add them to IPAM. You can use IPAM to create DHCP scopes and configure DHCP options. The following table describes, some DHCP features you can configure and manage with IPAM.

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Scopes and Options|Description|
|DHCP scopes|To configure a DHCP server to deliver IP addresses, you must configure the scope. A DHCP scope is the range of IP addresses that the DHCP server can assign to clients.|
|DHCP exclusions|You can use exclusions to prevent the DHCP server from assigning certain IP addresses within the range specified in the scope.|
|DHCP reservations|You use reservations to make sure a specific client always receives the same IP address from the DHCP server. For example, you can configure a reservation to ensure a network printer is always assigned the same IP address.|
|DHCP filters|Filters control the computers that can be DHCP server clients. Filters use the computer's MAC address.|

### Configure DHCP Policies
You can create DHCP policies from within IPAM. Keep in mind:

- DHCP policies allow system admins to have granular control of DHCP scopes.
- DHCP policies contain conditions that specify the IP address settings that are delivered to clients.
    - The conditions can be based on one or more pieces of criteria.
    - The conditions can also contain AND and OR operators.
- You can assign policies at the server level or the scope level.
- You can use DHCP policies to create a block of IP addresses for a specific client types, such as desktops, printers, or VOIP phones. An example of a policy might be to hand out shorter lease times to mobile devices than to wired devices.
- In IPAM, you configure policies from Configure DCHP Policy.

### Configure DHCP Failover
You can use IPAM to manage DHCP failover. The options for configuring DHCP failover are similar to those in the DHCP management console. To configure DHCP failover in IPAM, open the IPAM console and go to Configure Failover.

As a review, DHCP failover allows two DHCP servers to support the same subnet or scope. You can implement DHCP failover with load balancing or hot standby.

- When using load balancing, multiple DHCP servers actively service the same scope concurrently and balance the network load between them.
- When using hot standby, a backup DHCP server is configured, but left idle until needed. If the primary DHCP server fails, the backup DHCP server becomes active and takes over DHCP request processing.

### Manage a DNS Server with IPAM
DNS is the name resolution service that is used by Server 2016. IPAM can manage Windows DNS servers. DNS management is more limited than managing DHCP with IPAM. You can to launch the DNS management console from IPAM so that you can fully manage DNS servers from IPAM. With IPAM, you can manage these DNS features:

- Launch DNS on selected servers
- Create DNS zones
- Create conditional forwarders

### Manage DNS Records and Zones
With IPAM, you can view DNS resource records for a specific DNS zone, filter the records based on type (e.g., IP address, resource record data) and/or other filtering options. You can also edit DNS resource records for specific zones.

---
