
---
aliases: [ "20230404150011",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-04-04 15:00
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# 14.1 - Security Best Practices
---
## 14.1.2 Workstation Security Facts
Secure workstations help protect sensitive data on workstations from compromise. Secure workstations can also help protect the network from unauthorized access.

This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Data encryption
-   Password best practices
-   End-user best practices

### Data Encryption
Sensitive data can be stored in files or in a database. The files or database can be stored on a network server or on a user's workstation. Encryption helps protect stored data.

-   Encryption is the process of converting cleartext (unencrypted data) into an unreadable format, typically using a mathematical algorithm that creates a special key.
-   Conversion of the data back into cleartext requires the appropriate decryption key.

BitLocker was introduced in Windows Vista and encrypts an entire volume, not just individual files and folders. BitLocker protects all data on a volume, even if the hard drive is moved to another computer.

#### Volumes
When you set up BitLocker, it creates two volumes.

-   The system (boot) volume contains all Windows boot files. In Windows 10, this is the 100MB partition created during Windows installation. This volume is not encrypted.
-   The standard volume contains all other operating system files and data. This is the data that can be encrypted using BitLocker.

#### Encryption options
The two options BitLocker can use to encrypt the drive are:

-   Encrypt the entire drive at once. This is recommended for drives that are already in use. This process can take a very long time depending on the size of the drive.
-   The Encrypt Used Space Only option was introduced with Windows 10. It encrypts only the portion of the drive that is currently in use. As data is written to the drive, it is encrypted. This method speeds up the encryption process.

#### TPM chip
BitLocker uses the computer's Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip.

-   The TPM chip is built onto the motherboard and generates and stores encryption keys to protect boot files.
-   If the hard drive is moved to another computer, the encryption keys won't match and the data on the drive cannot be accessed.
    
    The TPM chip must be at least version 1.2 for BitLocker to use it.
    

You can enable BitLocker without a TPM chip, but boot files will not be encrypted. To use BitLocker without the TPM chip, you must use a startup USB key or have a system volume password enabled to boot into Windows.

#### Data recovery
During the process of enabling BitLocker, Windows generates the recovery key. The recovery key is different from the user generated password created during the setup process. The recovery key is a randomly generated key you can use to recover data in the following instances:

-   The hard drive is moved to a new system.
-   Changes are made to startup files.
-   BitLocker goes into a locked state.

The recovery key is extremely important. You should back it up in multiple places. BitLocker gives the following options to back up the key:

-   Personal Microsoft account.
-   USB drive.
-   File on the local computer.
-   Printout of the key out.
-   Active Directory if the computer is on a Active Directory network.

Be aware:
-   You can create a special user account, called the data recovery agent (DRA) to decrypt any encrypted data drive on the network.
-   If the hard drive contains the operating system files, it must be installed into a different machine and configured as a data drive before it can be decrypted.

#### BitLocker To Go
BitLocker To Go is a special version of BitLocker you can use to encrypt the data stored on a USB drive.

Organizations typically store important sensitive data (such as customer billing information) in databases. Keeping this data encrypted helps protect it if a hacker gains access to the database.  
  
Databases consist of multiple tables that use columns and rows to store data. The following table describes the three main methods of encrypting database data.

Database Encryption Method

#### Transparent data encryption (TDE)
TDE encrypts the entire database and all backups.

-   TDE encrypts data at rest (data not currently being used).
-   This method is considered transparent because data is automatically decrypted when an authorized user accesses it. The user does not see the process or do anything to decrypt the data.

#### Column-level encryption
Column-level encryption allows the administrator to encrypt each column separately.

-   Each column is encrypted using a different key. This increases security.
-   Column-level encryption causes a hit to the performance of the database.

#### Application-level encryption
In application-level encryption, the program that is used to create or modify the data is responsible for encrypting the data.

-   Data is encrypted before it goes into the database.
-   The resources required to setup this method can be prohibitive.

### Password Best Practices
One of the best defenses against data theft is implementing a strong password. Organizations should consider the password best practices when creating a password policy. The following table describes password best practices.

Password Best Practice

Description

Password length

The length of a password is the most important characteristic of a strong password. The recommended number of characters in a password is 8, but more is always better.  
  
Increasing the number of characters in a password exponentially increases the time it takes to brute force a password. For example:  

-   A complex password consisting of 8 characters takes anywhere from a few hours to 6 months to crack.
-   A complex password consisting of 12 characters takes approximately 34 thousand years to crack.

Using a passphrase instead of a password is strongly recommended. For example:  

> I'm studying for my CompTIA A+ Certification  
> - instead of -  
> CompTIA A+

Password composition

Passwords should consist of a combination of upper- and lower-case letters, numbers, and special characters (e.g.,!@#$%^&*?).  
  
Do not set requirements on the number or types of characters to use. This information can be used by a hacker for a brute force attack on the password.

Reset interval

Many organizations have set policies requiring users to reset passwords after a certain amount of time.

-   Research has shown that this reduces the effectiveness of a password because users will typically keep the same password and just add a number or symbol at the end of the password.
-   A better policy is to require stronger passwords and not force users to reset at specific intervals.

Common passwords

Do not allow common or known compromised passwords. There are many resources available to check if a password is a known compromised password.  
  
Hackers can use a list of compromised passwords to perform a password cracking attack. If a user is using one of these passwords, it is extremely easy for the hacker to crack it.

Personal information

Passwords should not include any personal information, such as important dates, people, or pet names. An attacker can gather much of this information from social media and use it to guess the password.  
  
A hacker can also use this information to guess the answers to password reset questions and allow a hacker to reset a password.

Multi-factor authentication

Authentication requires users to show any of the following:  

-   Something you are (biometrics)
-   Something you know (username and password, security questions)
-   Something you have (smart card)

Multi-factor authentication requires users to fulfill any two of these requirements. For example, a user can enter a username and password (something you know) and then a one-time code that is sent to user's mobile phone (something you have).

BIOS/UEFI Password

The BIOS/UEFI allows system settings to be changed. Always set a password to prevent unauthorized access to these settings.

### End-User Best Practices
End-users are often considered the weak link in the security chain and steps should be taken to mitigate this risk. The best approach is to educate end-users on security best practices and how to implement them.

The following table describes security best practices for end-users:

End-User Security Best Practices

Description

Workstation safety

Users should always implement the following safety practices:  

-   Lock the computer—Whenever stepping away from the computer, the user should lock the computer.
    -   To do this, the user presses the Windows key + L.
    -   The user must enter the password to use the computer again.
-   Use a screensaver lock—screensavers come on when a user is idle for a set amount of time (usually a few minutes).
    -   When the user returns, the user must enter the password to use the computer.
    -   This protects the computer if the user walks away and forgets to lock the computer.
-   Log off—When a user is done for the day or will be gone from the workstation for an extended time, the user should log off the computer.

Personally identifiable information (PII) safety

It is important to protect personally identifiable information. The following guidelines can help keep this information secure:

-   Users should not write down any personal information (such as important dates or passwords) and keep that information at the work area. Someone can easily find this information and use it to log into the workstation, or answer security questions and reset the password.
-   A password management program can help users generate and remember complex passwords.
-   An organization can use privacy filters.
    -   A privacy filter is a polarized sheet of plastic that is placed over a computer screen to restrict screen visibility from any angle other than straight on.
    -   This prevents office guests and passers-by from being able to read information from the user's computer monitor.

Hardware safety

Hardware devices (such as phones and laptops) must be kept secure. The following guidelines can help keep these devices secure:

-   Users should lock phones and laptops when not in use.
-   If the user removes a device from the work location, the user must ensure the device stays safe and secure.
-   Laptops or small workstations used in public areas should be secured to the desk with a cable lock. These special locks attach to the device and are secured to the desk to prevent theft.

---
## 14.1.4 Security Policy Facts
### Account Management Best Practices
A strong security policy is a vital component of a security plan. A security policy defines the overall security configuration for an organization. It should include regulations for account management.

The following table describes best practices for account management.

Account Management Best Practices

Description

Principle of least privilege

Users should have access only to the resources needed to perform their job. This known as the principle of least privilege.  
  
Guidelines for implementing the principle of least privilege include:

-   Never grant users administrative access. Assign users standard accounts which do not allow them to make system wide changes, install software, or perform administrative level tasks.
-   Configure network share permissions so users have access to only the network resources they need. For example, a technical support rep should not have access to HR resources.
-   Use file and folder permissions to explicitly specify who can do what with files and folders.
-   Remove any unnecessary software from workstations.
-   Use delegated administrative access. If a user needs higher level access to perform a job task, assigned the user to the group that most closely matches the level of access needed:
    -   Backup operators: backup or restore files, regardless of permissions assigned to those files.
    -   Cryptographic operators: perform cryptographic operations.
    -   Network configuration operators: manage the system's IP configuration.
    -   Performance log users: manage performance logs and alerts.
    -   Performance monitor users: manage performance counters.
    -   Remote desktop users: remotely access a workstation's desktop.

Default Accounts

There are two default accounts in Windows that you should disable:

-   The Guest user account has no password and provides too much system access. The Guest account is no longer included in Windows 10 and newer. On older Windows versions, it is disabled by default and should remain disabled.
-   You should disable the default administrator account. Create a unique administrator account and use it instead.

Restrict login times

You can restrict a user's login times to prevent someone from accessing the user's account after work hours.

Screensaver lock/  
timeout

Set the screensaver to activate when a user is idle for a set amount of time (usually a few minutes). Require logon to access the computer from the screensaver. This protects the computer if the user walks away and forgets to lock the computer.  
  
A screen timeout does the same thing, but does not activate a screensaver.

Failed attempts lockout

Configure lockout when an incorrect password is entered a defined number of times. Set the number of attempts so that a user can reenter a mistyped password or reset a password, but an intruder can't repeatedly guess a password.  
  
The lockout time can be for a set amount of time or can require the administrator to unlock the account.

Disable autorun

Autorun is a Windows feature that automatically runs executable files when a USB drive or optical disc is inserted. Disable this feature to prevent malware from being accidentally installed on the workstation.