
---
aliases: [ "20230404150446",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-04-04 15:04
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# 14.2 - Incident Response and Regulated Data
---
## 14.2.2 Incident Response Facts
A security incident can be anything from a user accessing prohibited content to theft or destruction of data. Every organization should have a detailed security policy that describes what is allowed on the network. Each organization should also have a detailed incident response plan that clearly states the steps that should be taken in case of an accident.

This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Incident detection
-   Incident response

### Incident Detection
It is important to contain and manage an incident as soon as it is detected. There are three methods that can be used to detect a security incident. The following table describes these methods.

Incident Detection Method

Description

Passive

Passive detection occurs when the security incident is discovered when not actively looking for it. For example:

-   A technician is performing maintenance on a user's computer and comes across prohibited content.
-   The network administrator is reviewing log files and notices unusual traffic on unused ports.

Passive detection helps determine what and how a security incident happened.

Active

Active detection is actively looking for security incidents. For example, the network intrusion detection system (IDS) detects malicious traffic and sends an alert to the network security administrator.  
  
Active detection helps discover security incidents as they are occurring.

Proactive

Proactive detection is the organization actively looking for security flaws in its systems. For example, using threat hunting and penetration testing to discover security flaws and close them before they can be exploited for malicious purposes.  
  
Proactive detection is a important part of a security plan and should be an ongoing practice.

### Incident Response
The response to a discovered security incident should be swift and efficient. The security plan should clearly identify the first responder. The _first responder_ is the person or team that should be immediately notified when a security incident is discovered. The first responder is responsible for securing the affected systems and collecting all evidence.

When the first responder arrives at the scene, the first step is to mitigate the damage of the incident. If the incident is an ongoing attack, it needs to be stopped before it can cause more damage. This can mean unplugging a network cable or shutting down the affected systems.

The following table describes the steps to take once the threat has been mitigated.

Incident Response

Description

Gather evidence

Once the threat is stopped, the first responder begins the process of gathering all evidence. Before looking at the affected systems, the first responder should:

-   Interview any witnesses.
-   Take pictures of screens, error messages, and physical damage.
-   Take detailed notes of the time, location, and details of the incident.

The first responder then collects evidence from the affected systems in the following order of volatility:

-   RAM—If the computer is rebooted or shut down, any data stored in RAM is lost.
-   Swap file—If a running process is not in the RAM, it is most likely be in the swap file. The first responder should copy it to an external drive for safekeeping.
-   Network connections and systems processes—The first responder should back up (to an external drive) any active network connections, browser history, or any evidence that a system process was exploited.
-   File evidence—The first responder should back up to an external drive any prohibited content, suspicious files, application files, and everything saved on the file system.

Once the evidence is gathered, the first responder should create an evidence grade sector-by-sector of the hard drive. The first responder should then use a write-blocker on the original hard drive to prevent changes to it.

Only someone trained in computer forensics should attempt to gather evidence from the system. Not following established procedures can result in the compromise of the evidence and it not being allowed in a court of law.

Establish the chain of custody

Chain of custody refers to the documentation and procedures used to detail the handling of any evidence. The chain of custody should document:

-   System information including serial number, make, and model.
-   Each instance of someone accessing the evidence. The documentation should include who accessed it, why it was accessed, what was done with it, and how it was secured again.

If the chain of custody is broken, the evidence will not be allowed in a court of law since it can no longer be proven that the evidence is unaltered.

Report the incident

Once all evidence has been gathered, the first responder reports the incident to the proper authorities as outlined in the security plan. This can be law enforcement or an internal security team.  
  
The first responder's goal is to gather the evidence to establish the:

-   Who
-   What
-   When
-   Where
-   How
-   Why (if possible)

The authorities then take over the investigation to fill in the details.

Follow up

Once the evidence has been gathered and the investigation has been passed to the authorities, follow these steps:

1.  Get operations back to normal and minimize the impact on production. This might involve replacing a workstation or reconfiguring an affected server. Every incident requires unique solutions.
2.  Remediate all affected systems.
    -   Clear all traces of the incident.
    -   Verify that all affected systems are working properly.
    -   Implement changes necessary to prevent a repeat of the security incident.
    -   Document all changes.
3.  Schedule a hot-wash meeting to review the incident and steps for remediation. Make recommendations to prevent the incident from occurring again or to improve the organization's response.

When a security incident occurs, follow all policies and procedures exactly as they are specified in the security plan. Deviating from these procedures can lead to further damage or destruction of evidence which can have legal ramifications.

---
## 14.2.4 Regulated Data Facts
Many organizations handle customer and employee data. Laws and regulations require organizations to keep this information secure. Organizations implement policies and procedures to ensure compliance. IT professionals should be aware of the security laws and regulations and adhere to policies and procedures.

This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Financial information
-   Personal information
-   Healthcare information

### Financial Information
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) were developed to protect payment card data.

-   PCI DSS defines the security standards for any organization that handles cardholder information for debit cards, credit cards, prepaid cards, any other type of payment cards.
-   Any organization that accepts payment cards must ensure it complies with the PCI DSS to avoid fines or possible restriction from processing payment cards.

PCI DSS defines 12 requirements under six goals that an organization must adhere to. The following table describes these goals and requirements.

PCI DSS Goal

PCI DSS Requirements

Build and maintain a secure network

Secure network requirements:

-   Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data.
-   Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other security parameters.

Protect cardholder data

Data protection requirements:

-   Protect stored cardholder data.
-   Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks.

Maintain a vulnerability management program

Vulnerability management program requirements:

-   Use and regularly update antivirus software or programs.
-   Develop and maintain secure systems and applications.

Implement strong access control measures

Access control measure requirements:

-   Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know.
-   Assign a unique ID to each person with computer access.
-   Restrict physical access to cardholder data.

Regularly monitor and test networks

Network monitoring and testing requirements:

-   Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.
-   Regularly test security systems and processes.

Maintain an information security policy

An organization is required to maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) was enacted in 2002. It applies to any company publicly traded on the stock market. The goal of SOX is to increase transparency and formalize a system of checks and balances. It regulates how companies maintain financial records and secure financial data.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) applies to any institution that offers loans, investment advice, or insurance. The GLBA requires these institutions to safeguard customer information and detail the practices for sharing consumer information. The FTC enforces GLBA.

### Personal Information
Personal information typically falls under one of two categories:

-   Personal government-issued information is anything that is assigned by the government including driver's license and social security number.
-   Personally identifiable information (PII) can include credit scores, address history, student records, and any information not assigned by the government that can identify a person.

The following table describes laws and regulations that have been enacted to protect PII.

Law/Regulation

Description

Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)

All educational institutions must keep detailed student records. The sensitive information kept in these files must be kept secure. FERPA provides institutions with procedures to secure this information including defining:

-   How to store the information.
-   Who the information can be shared with.
-   How long the data must be retained.

Educational institutions that are found to be in violation of FERPA regulations can face severe punishments including the withdrawal of federal funding.

California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)

The CCPA was enacted in 2018 and took effect in 2020. The CCPA allows California citizens to have control over their personal information that businesses collect. Key components of the CCPA include:

-   The right to know the information that a business collects about an individual.
-   The right to delete collected personal information.
-   The right to opt-out of the sale of an individual's personal information.
-   The right to non-discrimination for exercising an individual's CCPA rights.

Even though the CCPA applies to California citizens, many larger organizations allow citizens of other states to exercise these rights. These organizations find it too cost prohibitive to develop and apply the processes only to California residents.

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

The GDPR was enacted in 2016 and took effect in 2018. The GDPR applies to citizens in the European Union and provides many of the same rights as the CCPA.  
  
Like the CCPA, many organizations that operate in both the EU and other countries provide these rights to all users regardless of location.

### Healthcare Information
An individual's healthcare information is some of the most sensitive data an individual has. It must be kept secure at all times. The Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act (HIPAA) is the primary law defining how this data should be kept secure. All healthcare providers must take HIPAA seriously and abide by all regulations. HIPAA is enforced by the Department of Health and Sciences.

HIPAA contains two parts that IT professionals need to be aware of. Violations will lead to large fines.

-   HIPAA Privacy Rule defines how to secure health data regardless of the format.
-   HIPAA Security Rule defines how to secure health data that is stored electronically.

---
