
---
aliases: [ "20230404150820",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-04-04 15:08
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# 14.3 - Physical Security
---
## 14.3.2 Building Physical Access Measure Facts
Appropriate physical security measures are just as important as security measures on the network and devices. If a potential hacker can gain physical access to a network device, it becomes much easier for the hacker to gain access to sensitive data.

This lesson covers the following topics:

-   External physical security
-   Internal physical security

### External Physical Security
The following table describes many of the physical security measures that you can implement on the outside of the building.

External Physical Security Measure

Description

Fences

A high fence around the perimeter of the building should be the first line of security. The fence should be high enough to prevent someone from climbing it and should be installed so there is only one entry point onto the building property.

Security guards

Security guards can provide a high level of security inside and outside the property. Security guards should:

-   Be stationed at the entrance to the property. The guards should have an access list of those who are allowed onto the property. All visitors should have appointments and should be escorted at all times.
-   Patrol the property at regular intervals to look for anything suspicious.
-   Be stationed inside the building entrance for additional security.

Bollards

Bollards are metal poles that are secured into the ground to prevent vehicle access. Place bollards near the front of the building to prevent vehicles from getting too close.

Security cameras/lighting

Security cameras should be installed around the perimeter of the building. The cameras should cover all areas of the property and should be monitored at all times.  
  
Install lighting around the property to ensure all areas are well lit. This makes it more difficult for someone to sneak around the building. It also allows the camera to get a clearer picture of someone walking around.  
  
You can implement motion sensors to trigger spotlights and/or alarms when motion is detected. The motion sensors can be used both inside and outside the building.

Badge readers

Badge readers should be installed at all entrances to the building. Badge readers help ensure only authorized users gain access. Badges can also be configured to allow users access only to the areas they are authorized to be in.

### Internal Physical Security
The following table describes many of the physical security measures that you can implement inside the building:

Internal Physical Security Measure

Description

Access control vestibule  
(ACV)

An _access control vestibule_ is a specialized entrance with two doors that creates a security buffer zone between two areas. Once a person enters the space between the doors, both doors lock.  
  
In the ACV, the person must provide authentication credentials, such as an access badge or a biometric scan. If the credentials are valid, the second door unlocks, and the individual can enter. If the person does not have valid credentials, security should be alerted.  
  
The ACV is a preventative measure against piggybacking or tailgating. _Piggybacking_ (also known as _tailgating_) is someone closely following an authorized user into a building to get around the badge readers or door locks.

Magnetometer

A magnetometer is a metal detector that users walk through to detect if they are bringing weapons or unauthorized equipment into the building. Install the magnetometer just inside the entrance to the building.

Equipment security

It is important to secure equipment inside the building in case someone does gain unauthorized access. Implement the following equipment security measures:

-   Require users to close and lock interior doors.
-   Use cable locks to physically secure a devices to the desks. Ensure that the only way to remove hardware is to supply the correct key or code to unlock the cable, or to physically cut the cable.
-   Lock server racks at all times.
-   Install hardware (such as wireless access points) in hard-to-reach places (such as ceilings) and in special lock boxes.
-   Install alarms on all doors, server racks, hardware cabinets, and anywhere sensitive data is kept. The alarms should alert security to a potential threat if a lock is tampered with.

Door locks

There are different types of door locks you can use to secure equipment:

-   Standard lock that uses a key to open the lock.
-   A _key fob_ provides keyless authentication to a specific lock. The key fob may use a wireless radio signal, NFC, or Bluetooth connection to communicate with the lock.
-   _Smart cards_ also provide a keyless authentication to a specific lock. Smart cards typically use RFID or NFC to communicate with the lock and need to be scanned by a special reader to open the lock.
-   Biometric locks can provide authentication to a lock using a user's unique physical traits. Biometric locks are very secure, but do require more configuration than other types of locks. Common biometric locks include:
-   -   Fingerprints
    -   Palm prints
    -   Retina scanner

---
