
---
aliases: [ "20230308150615",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-08 15:06
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# 8.1 - Active Directory
---
## 8.1.6 Active Directory Facts
- This lesson covers the following topics:
	- Active Directory Overview
	- Active Directory Components

### Active Directory Overview
Active Directory is a centralized database that contains user accounts, group objects, workstation objects, security information, and much more.

Active Directory provides the following benefits:

- Centralized resources and security administration—the ability for an administrator to manage and secure the network resources and associated security objects from a single point (the Active Directory database).
- Single logon for access to global resources—a user created on a domain controller can access (from any computer on the network) any resource on the network that the user has been granted access to.
- Simplified resource location—Active Directory simplifies access to files and print resources by allowing files and print resources to be published on the network. Once published, a user can search the Active Directory database for the desired resource and securely access it.

### Active Directory Components
#### Domain
A domain is an administratively defined collection of network resources that share a common directory database and common security policies. The domain is the basic administrative unit of an Active Directory structure.

-   Database information is replicated (shared or copied) within a domain.
-   Security settings are not shared between domains.
-   Each domain maintains its own set of relationships with other domains.
-   Domains are identified using Domain Name System (DNS) names.
    -   The common name is the domain name itself (for example, CorpNet).
    -   The distinguished name includes the common domain name along with the top-level DNS domain name (for example, CorpNet.xyz).

Depending on the network structure and requirements, the entire network might be represented by a single domain with millions of objects. It is also possible that the network might require multiple domains.

#### Organizational Unit (OU)
An organizational unit is like a folder that subdivides and organizes network resources within a domain. An organizational unit:

-   Is a container object.
-   Can contain other OUs or any type of leaf object (such as users, computers, and printers).
-   Can logically organize network resources.
-   Simplifies security administration.

#### Built-in containers
Like OUs, generic built-in containers are used to organize Active Directory objects. Built-in container objects differ from other containers in that they:

-   Are created by default.
-   Cannot be created, moved, renamed, or deleted.
-   Have very few editable properties.

#### Objects
Within Active Directory, each resource is identified as an object. Common objects include:

-   Users
-   Groups
-   Computers

You should know the following about objects:

- Each object contains attributes that include information about the object itself such as a user's name, phone number, and email address. This information is used for locating and securing resources.
- Active Directory uses DNS for locating and naming objects.
- Container objects hold other objects. These can be either other containers or leaf objects.

#### Domain Controller
A domain controller is a Windows server that holds a copy of the Active Directory database.

- A domain controller is a member of only one domain.
- A domain can contain multiple domain controllers. Each domain controller holds a copy of the Active Directory database.
- Any domain controller can make changes to the Active Directory database.
- Replication is the process of copying changes made to the Active Directory database between all domain controllers in the domain.
---

## 8.1.12 Group Policy Facts
This lesson will cover the following topics:
- Group Policy overview
- GPO structure
- Key GPO settings
- Group Policy Editor
- Group Policy Commands

### Group Policy Overview
A _policy_ is a set of configuration settings applied to users or computers. Group policies allow the administrator to simultaneously apply multiple settings to multiple objects within the Active Directory domain simultaneously. Collections of policy settings are stored in a Group Policy Object (GPO) and can be used to apply registry settings, run scripts, apply templates, set up software, make configuration settings, etc.

Keep in mind the following concerning GPOs:
- You can link GPOs to Active Directory domains and organizational units (OUs). Built-in containers (such as the Computers container) and folders cannot have GPOs linked to them.
- A GPO applied to an OU affects the objects in the OU and all sub-OUs.
- A GPO applied to a domain affects all objects within all OUs.
- A local GPO is stored on a local machine. Computers that are not part of a domain use the Local Group Policy settings to control security settings and other restrictions on the computer.
- GPOs are applied in the following order:
    1.  In relation to the Local Group Policy on the computer.
    2.  In relation to GPOs linked to the domain that contain the user or computer object.
    3.  In relation to GPOs linked to the organizational unit(s) that contains the object (from the highest-level OU to the lowest-level OU).
- A specific setting in a GPO can be set in the following ways:
    -   Not Configured indicates the GPO has no value for that setting and does not change the current setting.
    -   Enabled indicates the GPO identifies a value to enforce.
-   Individual settings within all GPOs are combined to form the effective Group Policy setting as follows:
    -   If a setting is defined in one GPO and undefined in another, the defined setting is enforced (regardless of the position of the GPO in the application order).
    -   If a setting is configured in two GPOs, the setting in the last applied GPO is used.

### GPO Structure
Each Group Policy Object has a common structure and hundreds of configuration settings that can be enabled and configured.

#### Computer Configuration
Computer configuration policies (also called machine policies) are enforced for the entire computer and are applied when the computer boots.  
  
Computer configuration policies include:
-   Software that should be installed on a specific computer.
-   Scripts that should run at startup or shutdown.
-   Password restrictions that must be met for all user accounts.
-   Network communication security settings.
-   Registry settings that apply to the computer (the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE subtree).

Computer configuration policies are applied as the computer boots and are enforced before any user logs on.

#### User Configuration
User configuration policies are enforced for specific users. User configuration policy settings include:

-   Software that should be installed for a specific user.
-   Scripts that should run at logon or logoff.
-   Internet Explorer user settings (such as favorites and security settings).
-   Registry settings that apply to the current user (the HKEY_CURRENT_USER subtree).

User configuration policies are applied as the user logs on and often customize Windows-based user preferences.

### Key GPO Settings
#### Account Policies
Account policies are in effect only when configured in a GPO linked to a domain. Use account policies to control the following:
-   Password settings
-   Account lockout settings
-   Kerberos settings

#### Local Policies/Audit Policy
You use audit policy settings to configure auditing for events such as logging on, account management, or privilege use.

#### Local Policies/User Rights Assignment
Computer configuration policies include a special category of policies called user rights. User rights identify system maintenance tasks and the users or groups who can perform those tasks. Examples of user rights include:

- Access this computer from the network (the ability to access resources on the computer through a network connection).
- Load and unload device drivers.
- Allow log on locally (the ability to log on to the computer console).
- Allow log on through Terminal Services (the ability to log on using a Remote Desktop connection).
- Back up files and directories (does not include restoring files and directories).
- Shut down the system.
- Remove a computer from a docking station.

#### Local Policies/Security Options
Security options allow you to apply or disable rights for all users the Group Policy applies to. Examples of security options policies include:
-   Computer shutdown when the Security event log reaches capacity.
-   Unsigned driver installation.
-   Ctrl+Alt+Del is required for log on.

#### Registry
You use registry policies to:
-   Configure specific registry keys and values.
-   Specify if a user can change registry values, view subkeys, or modify key permissions.

#### File System
You use file system policies to configure file and folder permissions that apply to multiple computers. For example, you can limit access to specific files that appear on all client computers.

#### Software Restriction Policies
You use software restriction policies to define the software permitted to run on any computer in the domain. You can apply these policies to specific users or all users. You can use software restriction policies to:
-   Identify allowed or blocked software.
-   Allow users to run only the files you specify on multi-user computers.
-   Determine who can add trusted publishers.

#### Administrative Templates
Administrative templates are registry-based settings that you can configure within a GPO to control the computer and overall user experience. They include the ability to do such things as:
-   Use Windows features such as BitLocker, Offline Files, and Parental Controls.
-   Customize the Start menu, taskbar, or desktop environment.
-   Control notifications.
-   Restrict access to Control Panel features.
-   Configure Internet Explorer features and options.

### Group Policy Editor
The Group Policy Editor is an MMC snap-in administrators can use to manage computer and user configuration local settings.
The Group Policy Editor can be launched in several ways. Here are a few:
#### Search Menu
Press **Windows** + **s** to open the **Search** menu.  
Type 'Edit group policy' into the search bar.  
Select **Edit group policy** from the search results.
#### Run Command
Press **Windows** + **r** to open the **Run** command.  
Type 'gpedit.msc' in the text field and press **Enter**.
#### Settings app
Press **Windows** + **i** to open the **Settings** app.  
Type 'Edit Group Policy' into the search box.  
Select **Edit Group Policy** from the search results.
#### File Explorer
Click the **File Explorer** icon in the Taskbar or press **Windows** + **e**.  
Type 'gpedit.msc' into the address bar and press **Enter**.

### Group Policy Commands
You can enter the following group policy commands on the command line of a local machine
#### gpedit.msc
This command opens the Local Group Policy Editor.
#### gpupdate
This command forces a computer to ask the domain controller for new or updated group policy objectives. These updates usually occur automatically, but on occasion, you may need to force the updates to a computer.
#### gpresult
This command displays a listing of the group policy objects that have been applied to the computer and the user.