
---
aliases: [ "20230309210620",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-09 21:06
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# 8.2 - Users and Groups
---
## 8.2.2 Users and Group Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
- User Accounts
- Groups

### User Accounts
A user account controls if and how a user can use a computer.
- The user account identifies a specific user.
- Logon is the process of authenticating to the computer by supplying a user account name and the password associated with that user account.
- On Windows systems, rights control the user's ability to perform actions on a computer (such as modifying system settings or installing hardware).
- Permissions control access to files, folders, and printers. Permissions identify what the user can do with the associated object.

The following table shows the types of user accounts that are available with Windows:
#### Built-in Administrator Account
An account that has all rights and permissions on the computer. This account is hidden from normal view. It doesn't show up on the usual login screen.
#### User Account with administrative privileges
A user account that has been granted administrative privileges.
#### Standard account
A basic user account. Standard users can browse the internet, run software, access files, and use printers.
#### Guest Account
An account with limited capabilities, usually restricted to logging on, viewing files, and running some programs. As a security measure, Windows XP and later automatically disable the Guest account to prevent unauthorized logon to the system.
#### Microsoft Account
A free account you can create to access Microsoft devices and services. To set up a Microsoft account, you must use a valid e-mail address. A Microsoft account:
- Allows you to log in to a computer on which you haven't previously set up a local user account.
- Allows you to download apps from the Windows Store.
- Syncs settings across multiple computers.

You can use groups to assign rights and permissions to multiple users. Privileges assigned to the group are granted to all group members.

On a Windows system, users and groups are stored in one of three locations:
- Local accounts are stored on each computer and control access to resources on that computer.
- Domain accounts are stored in a central database called Active Directory. A domain controller is a special server that stores user accounts, groups, and the rights and permissions assigned to them.
- Online accounts are stored online by Microsoft.

### Groups
Windows systems have default groups that are created automatically. These groups have pre-assigned rights, permissions, and group memberships. Some of these groups can be renamed, but not deleted. In most cases, you should not modify the membership or privileges of these groups without understanding how they are used. Windows features and 3rd party applications installed on the system may create additional groups.

The following table lists some of the default groups used on Windows systems.
#### Administrators
A group that has complete and unrestricted access to the computer, including every system right. The Administrator user account and any other account designated as a computer administrator is a member of this group.
#### Power Users
A group that modern versions of Windows no longer use. However, it still exists for backward compatibility. This group (originally used in Windows XP and earlier) provided limited administrative abilities. Avoid assigning users to the Power Users group unless an application or service specifically requires it.
#### Users
A group whose members can use the computer but cannot perform system administration tasks and might not be able to run some legacy applications.
-   Members cannot install printers if the driver isn't already installed on the system.
-   Members cannot view or modify system files.
-   Any user created with Local Users and Groups is automatically a member of this group.
-   User accounts designated as standard or limited use accounts are members of this group.
#### Guests
A group that has limited rights. Members can shut down the system.

---
## 8.2.4 Login Options
This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Sign-in options
-   Sign-in settings
-   Single sign-on

### Sign-in Options
You can access sign-in options by going to **Start** > **Settings** > **Accounts** > **Sign-in Options**.
The following table describes the sign-in options provided.
#### Facial Recognition (Windows Hello)
Allows a user to set up and sign in using an infrared camera. This helps prevent unauthorized access by an attacker with a photo of an authorized user. The infrared webcam must be certified to work with Windows Hello.  
  
When using facial recognition:
- The user presents the face to the webcam.
- If the facial characteristics match the sample stored by Windows Hello, the user is authenticated to the system.
- The user's facial characteristics and heat patterns must match the stored sample.
#### Fingerprint recognition (Windows Hello)
Allows a user to set up and sign in using a fingerprint scanner. The user supplies a fingerprint sample. If the sample matches the sample stored by Windows Hello, the user is authenticated.
#### PIN (Windows Hello)
Allows a user to set up and sign in using a PIN. The user supplies a PIN. If the correct one is entered, then the user is authenticated.  
  
The PIN is not intended for day-to-day authentication. Instead, Windows Hello uses the PIN as a backup in the event facial or fingerprint recognition doesn't work. Because of this, Windows Hello requires the end-user to set up a PIN before registering a facial or fingerprint scan for the account.
#### Security Key
Allows a user to sign in using a physical key (usually a USB key).
#### Password
Allows a user to sign in using a password. This is also where the user can change the password if needed.
#### Picture Password
Allows a user to swipe and tap a photograph to unlock the device. The user chooses a picture and then selects a 3-step gesture used for sign-in.

>[! tip] Windows Hello
>Windows Hello is a biometric logon system built into Windows 11. Windows Hello stores registered biometric scans, accepts scans for authentication, and determines whether a scan matches the stored scan.

### Sign-in Settings
The following settings can be found in Windows 11 **Sign-in options** > **Additional settings**.

**For improved security, only allow Windows Hello sign-in for Microsoft accounts on this device (Recommended)**
- Toggle to select **On** or **Off**

**If you’ve been away, when should Windows require you to sign in again?**
- Drop-down menu to select **When PC wakes up from sleep** or **Never**

**Dynamic lock – Automatically lock your device when you’re away**
- Checkbox to select **Allow Windows to automatically lock your device when you're away**

**Automatically save my restartable apps and restart them when I sign back in**
- Toggle to select **On** or **Off**

**Show account details such as my email address on the sign-in screen**
- Toggle to select **On** or **Off**

**Use my sign-in info to automatically finish setting up after an update**
- Toggle to select **On** or **Off**

### Single Sign-on
Active Directory uses the _single sign-on_ (SSO) process to simplify how users log into all the systems and applications that they will need.
- When a user logs in, the credentials are authenticated with the authentication server.
- When the user visits a trusted resource, the authentication server vouches for the user; the resource allows the user access.
- The user can continue to log into multiple network resources without having to re-authenticate or transmit the username and password across the network multiple times.

---
## 8.2.7 Online Authentication Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
- Microsoft account authentication
- Managing a Microsoft account

### Microsoft Account Authentication
With Windows 11, you can use Microsoft accounts as well as local user accounts to authenticate. A local account is stored on the local system and all profile information associated with the account stays on the computer.

If you use an online Microsoft account to authenticate to the Windows system, Microsoft's online service is used to authenticate the user to the local system as well as to back up some user profile information to Microsoft's cloud.

In this configuration:
- You use the email address and password associated with the Microsoft account to log on to the system.
- If you use the same Microsoft account to log on to another Windows 8 or later system, the account's profile information is automatically synchronized to the other computer, including password, desktop configuration, and apps.
- Files associated with the user profile are not synchronized. However, you can use the account's associated OneDrive account to make user files available on other systems.


### Managing a Microsoft Account
Once you create the online account, you can associate a local user account with an online user account by following these steps:
1.  Select **Start**.
2.  Select **Settings**.
3.  Select **Accounts**.
4.  Select **Your Info**.
5.  Select **Sign in with a Microsoft account instead**.

You can manage online account settings by going to **Manage My Account** and following these steps:
-   Select **Start**.
-   Select **Settings**.
-   Select **Accounts**.
-   Select **Your Info**.
-   Select **Manage my accounts**.

You can manage the following by going to **Manage My Microsoft Account**.
-   Devices – Find, repair, and manage your devices.
-   Privacy – Manage your privacy settings for Microsoft products.
-   Payment options – Manage how you pay for purchases with your Microsoft account.
-   Order history – View recent purchases made with your Microsoft account.
-   Security – Change password.
-   Your info.
    -   Full name
    -   Date of birth
    -   Country or region
    -   Email address
    -   Phone number
-   Language info.
    -   Display languages
    -   Preferred languages
    -   Regional formats

Microsoft accounts also allow you to set screen time that can allocate a specific number of hours that manage screen time, content filters, activity reporting, and more. You can add a family member by following these steps:
1.  Select **Start**.
2.  Select **Settings**.
3.  Select **Family & other users**.
4.  Select **Add account**.

---
## 8.2.10 UAC Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
-   User Account Control (UAC)
-   How UAC Works
-   Key UAC concepts

### User Account Control
User Account Control is a tool that alerts the user when a task or operation requires administrative privileges to be completed.

Windows 11 lets you use UAC to automatically elevate privileges whenever necessary to complete an administrative-level task. You don't have to log off and log back on as an administrative user to complete the administrative task. Nor do you have to manually use the run option to perform tasks as an administrator. UAC takes care of all that for you.

### How UAC Works
UAC creates an access token for each user logging in. This access token controls what actions the user can perform on the system.
#### Admin Approval Mode
Windows creates two types of tokens. When a standard user logs on, it creates a standard user token. When an administrator logs on, it creates a standard user token and an administrator.  
  
Admin Approval Mode is triggered if a standard user access token is not sufficient to perform a given task. The system (through UAC) requests privilege escalation, called Prompt for consent. This requires the user to click the Yes box to perform the action. After the task is performed, it returns to a standard user privilege level.
#### Prompting for Credentials
Prompting for Credentials happens if an administrator token does not exist for the user. The system knows that the user is only a standard user. Before the task can be performed the user is prompted to enter an administrative password.

### Key UAC Concepts
It's important to understand that the Application Information Service component has to be running for the UAC to work correctly. If you disable this service, you will receive Access Denied errors because the applications will be unable to request admin-level approval.

Secure desktop makes the desktop of the system unavailable whenever a UAC prompt is triggered. This is done to ensure that malicious software is not able to alter the display of the UAC prompt or automatically provide consent to the prompt. This is the default behavior of UAC.

You can customize many aspects of how UAC works. Use the UAC settings in Control Panel to configure the sensitivity of UAC. UAC Security settings include:
#### Always notify me
This is the most secure option. When selected, a UAC prompt pops up when programs try to install software, make changes to the computer, or make changes to Windows settings. The secure desktop is enabled for 150 seconds.  
  
No task can be performed until the user responds to the prompt. If nothing is selected in 150 seconds, UAC automatically denies the request.
#### Notify me only when applications try to make changes to my computer
When selected, a prompt pops up only when an application tries to make changes to the computer. The secure desktop is enabled, and you have 150 seconds to respond to the prompt.  
  
If there is no response, the request is denied.
#### Notify me only when applications try to make changes to my computer (do not dim my desktop)
This setting is the same as the Notify me only when applications try to make changes to my computer, except that the secure desktop is not enabled. This may be a little more convenient, but it is less secure.
#### Never notify me
With this setting, UAC prompting is disabled. If you are logged on as an administrator, all actions are executed without prompting you to confirm them. You will not see the secure desktop.  
  
If you are logged in as a standard user with this setting, every action that requires privilege elevation is automatically denied.
