
---
aliases: [ "20230228181955",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-02-28 18:19
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.1 Command Line
---
## 7.1.13 System Command Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:

-   Run commands as administrator
-   Get command help
-   Identify useful commands

### Run Commands as Administrator

As an administrator, you will often troubleshoot and perform tasks on a Windows system using command-line tools. For example, using the ping command-line tool can help you test network connections, while the IPconfig command-line tool can help you determine how a network is configured.

To run command-line tools, access Microsoft's Windows Terminal, also known as PowerShell. To get full use of some of these command-line tools, run them using elevated privileges or administrator rights.

It is important to know how to access Windows Terminal with elevated privileges. To start Windows Terminal as an administrator, choose either of the following methods:

-   Right-click Start and select **Windows Terminal (Admin)**.
-   Select **Start** and then **All apps**
-   Scroll down and right-click **Windows Terminal**
-   Select **More** > **Run as administrator**

### Get Command Help

To view helpful information about a specific command, type the command followed by **/?**. For example, type **ping /?** and press **Enter**, to display the command usage and any options for the ping command.

### Common Commands
#### Navigation
##### cd
Use the cd command to work with the current directory. Common switches used with cd are:

-   cd by itself shows the current directory (the current directory is usually shown in the command prompt as well).
-   cd [folder name] changes the current directory to the one specified (if the directory is within the current directory).
-   cd [full path] changes to the directory specified by the path.
-   cd .. changes the current directory to the immediate parent directory (moves up one directory level).
-   cd /D [file] [path] changes the current drive in addition to changing the directory.

##### dir
Use the dir command to display a list of files and subdirectories in a directory. Common switches used with dir are:

-   dir /p pauses output at every page.
-   dir /s displays information in subdirectories.
-   dir /a [xx] displays files with the specified attributes:
    -   Options may be combined, such as /arh, to show read-only, hidden files.
    -   Use - to show files without an attribute. For example, dir /a-r shows files that are not read only.

##### md/mkdir
Use the md and mkdir commands to create (make) a directory. Common switches used with md or mkdir are:

-   md [directory] creates a new directory in the current directory.
-   md [path] [directory] creates a new directory in the directory specified by the path.

##### rd/rmdir
Use the rd or rmdir command to delete (remove) a directory. Common switches used with rm or rmdir are:

-   rmdir [ directory] removes the specified directory within the current directory.
-   rmdir [ path] [ directory] removes the directory specified in the path.
-   rmdir /s removes subdirectories in addition to files in the current directory.
-   rmdir /q will not prompt you before each deletion.

##### Drive navigation inputs: C:\ or D:\ or x:\
To switch from one directory or folder to another, use the drive letter associated with the drive. For example, from the command prompt, type **G:** and press **Enter** to change to the G: drive. For this command to work, the drive letter you are entering must have been created.

#### Command Line Tools
##### ipconfig
The ipconfig command displays all current TCP/IP network configuration values and refreshes the DHCP and DNS settings. Use the ipconfig command as follows:

-   ipconfig with no switch to view the IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway.
-   /all switch to view detailed configuration information, including the DHCP and DNS server addresses.
-   /release (IPv4) and /release6 (IPv6) switches to release the configuration information obtained from the DHCP server.
-   /renew (IPv4) and /renew6 (IPv6) switches to request new configuration information from the DHCP server.
    -   If a Windows host's IP address is in the Automatic Private IP Addressing (APIPA) range (169.254.0.0 to 169.254.255.254), it will not be able to contact a DHCP server.
    -   After resolving the issue, you can use the ipconfig /renew command to try contacting the DHCP server again.
-   /flushdns switch to force the client to flush its DNS cache.

##### ping
The ping command verifies connectivity between two nodes in a network by sending ICMP packets and measuring response times in milliseconds.

-   A Request timed out error message indicates that the destination computer did not respond to the ping requests.
-   A Destination unreachable error message indicates that the computer does not know the correct route to reach the destination computer.

You can ping a host by its IP address or DNS name. If the DNS name is used, the computer must look up the destination host's IP address before performing a ping test. If pinging the IP address works but pinging the hostname fails, troubleshoot DNS name resolution.

##### hostname
The hostname command prints the name of the current host/computer.

##### netstat
The netstat command shows IP statistics, which includes the following information:

-   Current connections
-   Incoming and outgoing connections
-   Active sessions, ports, and sockets
-   The local routing table

Commonly used netstat command options include the following:

-   -a displays all connections and listening ports.
-   -b displays the executable that created each connection or listening port.
-   -e displays Ethernet statistics. This is commonly used in conjunction with the -s option.
-   -n displays addresses and port numbers in numerical form.
-   -o displays the owning process ID associated with each connection.
-   -p [protocol] shows connections for the protocol specified, such as IP, IPv6, ICMP, ICMPv6, TCP, TCPv6, UDP, or UDPv6.
-   -r displays the routing table.
-   -s displays per-protocol statistics. The output can be limited to specific protocols by using this option in conjunction with the -p option.

##### nslookup
The nslookup command resolves (looks up) the IP address of a hostname. It also displays other name resolution-related information, such as the DNS server used for the lookup request.

-   nslookup shows the local DNS server and its IP address.
-   nslookup _domain_name_ - returns the A record for the domain being queried.
-   nslookup _ip_address_ - performs a reverse lookup using the IP address.

##### chkdsk
The chkdsk utility verifies the file system integrity of a hard disk. Errors that can be checked and fixed by chkdsk include the following:

-   _Lost clusters_ are a series of used clusters on the hard disk drive that are not associated with a specific file.
-   A _cross-linked file_ occurs when two files claim the same cluster. chkdsk identifies cross-linked files and corrects their cluster associations.
-   _Orphaned_ files are files that exist on the hard drive, but are not associated with a directory in the index. Normally, chkdsk can re-associate the file with the correct directory.
-   A _bad sector_ is a portion of the hard disk that cannot be used. Bad sectors are marked so that they are no longer used. Any files in bad sectors are redirected to another sector.
    
    The NTFS file system automatically detects bad sectors as the system operates saving and reading files.
    

You can run chkdsk by typing **chkdsk _drive_letter_** at the command prompt.

-   Use chkdsk with the /f switch to automatically fix errors without scanning for bad sectors.
-   Use the /r switch to scan and fix bad sectors and other errors.

Because chkdsk replaces the ScanDisk utility that was available in older versions of Windows, chkdsk is sometimes referred to as ScanDisk.

##### net user
The net user command, when run without any options, displays all accounts currently created on the system. When used with options, it can remove, add, or make changes to the user accounts on a computer.

The command options include:

-   [username [password I *] [options]] [/DOMAIN]
-   username {password I *} /ADD [options] [/DOMAIN]
-   _username_ [/DELETE] [/DOMAIN]
-   _username_ [/TIMES:{times I ALL}]
-   _username_ [/ACTIVE: {YES I NO}] I

##### net use
The net use command is used to access a shared folder on the network. Use the net use command to map a drive letter to the shared folder.

-   net use by itself lists the current connected shared folders and drive letters.
-   net use drive_letter _UNC_path_ maps the specified drive letter to a shared folder. For example, net use F: \\Wrk1\shared2.
-   net use * _UNC_path_ maps the next available drive letter to the shared folder. For example, net use * \\Wrk1\shared2.
-   /persistent:yes reconnects the connection at each subsequent logon; /persistent:no makes the mapping temporary. For example, net use F: \\Wrk1\shared2 /persistent:yes.
-   net use /? or net use ? displays the help screen for the net use command.

##### tracert
The tracert (trace route) command tests connectivity between two devices and displays the path between them.  
  
Responses from each hop on the route are measured three times to provide an accurate representation of how long the packet takes to reach and be returned by that host. This is useful for troubleshooting connectivity problems between specific network segments.

##### format
The format command creates a new root directory and file system for the disk. It can also check for bad areas on the disk; it can delete all data on the disk. To be able to use a new disk, you must first use this command to format the disk.

_Formatting_ is the process of preparing a partition to use a specific file system. Be aware of the following facts regarding formatting:

-   When you format a disk, you identify the file system type and identify the cluster size used to store data.
-   Reformatting removes the existing file system and replaces it with the new file system type.
-   Reformatting a drive deletes all existing data.
-   If your system or disk supports multiple operating systems, be sure to select a file system supported by all necessary operating systems.
-   NTFS is not recommended for disks smaller than 10 MB.

The format syntax is: format volume [/FS:file-system] [/V:label] [/Q] [/L[:state]] [/A:size] [/C] [/I:state] [/X] [/P:passes] [/S:state]  
format volume [/V:label] [/Q] [/F:size] [/P:passes]  
format volume [/V:label] [/Q] [/T:tracks /N:sectors] [/P:passes]  
format volume [/V:label] [/Q] [/P:passes]  
format volume [/Q]  
  
Common parameters include:

-  \<volume> specifies the mount point, volume name, or drive letter (followed by a colon) of the drive that you want to format.
    -   If you do not specify any command-line options, format uses the volume type to determine the default format for the disk.
    -   Example: Format D:
-   /FS:filesystem specifies the type of file system (FAT, FAT32, NTFS, exFAT, ReFS, or UDF) to use when formatting the disk.
-   /V:\<label> specifies the volume label.
-   /Q performs a quick format.
    -   It deletes the file table and the root directory of a previously formatted volume, but does not perform a sector-by-sector scan for bad areas.
    -   You should use the /Q command-line option to format only previously formatted volumes that you know are in good condition.

##### xcopy
Use the xcopy command to copy files and directory trees. Common switches used with xcopy are:

-   xcopy /a copies files with the archive attribute set and doesn't change the attribute.
-   xcopy /m copies files with the archive attribute set and turns off the archive attribute.
-   xcopy /d copies files changed on or after the specified date. If no date is given, it copies only those files whose source time is newer than the destination time.
-   xcopy /p prompts you before creating each destination file.
-   xcopy /s copies directories and subdirectories (except empty ones).
-   xcopy /e copies directories and subdirectories, including empty ones.
-   xcopy /h copies hidden and system files also.
-   xcopy /r overwrites read-only files.
-   xcopy /k copies attributes. Normal xcopy will reset read-only attributes.
-   xcopy /y overwrites existing files without prompting.

##### copy
Use the copy command to copy files from one location to another. Common switches used with copy are:

-   copy [source] [destination] copies the specified file to the new location.
-   copy [folder] [*.*] [path] [destination] copies all files with extensions in a folder to the new location.
-   copy /a specifies that the file is an ASCII text file.
-   copy /b specifies that the file is a binary file.
-   copy /n copies files using short filenames.
-   copy /y will not prompt you before each overwrite operation.
-   copy /v verifies files after they are copied.

Be aware of the following effects moving (copying) files between partitions has on file attributes:

-   When copying files from a FAT32 partition to another partition, the file attributes are retained.
-   When copying files from an NTFS partition to a FAT32 partition, attributes such as encryption and permissions that are not available in FAT32 are removed.

##### robocopy
The robocopy command (short for Robust File Copy) is used to copy entire folder structures between volumes or across a network. The benefit of using robocopy is that all NTFS file permissions and attributes are maintained and interrupted transfers can be resumed. robocopy uses the following syntax:  
  
robocopy [source_folder] [destination] [options]

-   /s copies subdirectories, excluding empty directories
-   /e copies subdirectories, including empty directories
-   /mov moves all specified files and directories, and deletes them from the source when complete
-   /copyall copies all files attributes and information

RoboCopy is a very powerful copy utility. Use it only if you fully understand how to use it.

##### gpupdate
The gpupdate command refreshes local and Active Directory-based Group Policy settings, including security settings.

-   /target: { computer | user } processes only the computer settings or the current user settings. By default, both the computer settings and the user settings are processed.
-   /force ignores all processing optimizations and reapplies all settings.
-   /wait: _value_ identifies the number of seconds that policy processing waits to finish. The default is 600 seconds. 0 means "no wait"; -1 means "wait indefinitely."
-   /logoff logs off after the refresh has completed. This is required for those Group Policy client-side extensions that do not process on a background refresh cycle but that do process when the user logs on, such as user software installation and folder redirection. This option has no effect if there are no extensions called that require the user to log off.
-   /boot restarts the computer after the refresh has completed. This is required for those Group Policy client-side extensions that do not process on a background refresh cycle but that do process when the computer starts up, such as computer software installation. This option has no effect if there are no extensions called that require the computer to be restarted.
-   /? displays help at the command prompt.

To run the gpupdate command, use the following syntax:

-   gpupdate [/target:{computer|user}] [/force] [/wait:value] [/logoff] [/boot]

##### gpresult
The gpresult command displays Group Policy settings and Resultant Set of Policy (RSOP) for a user or a computer.

-   /s _computer_ specifies the name or IP address of a remote computer. (Do not use backslashes.) The default is the local computer.
-   /u _domain_ \ _user_ runs the command with the account permissions of the user that is specified by user or domain\user. The default is the permissions of the current logged-on user on the computer that issues the command.
-   /p _password_ specifies the password of the user account that is specified in the /u parameter.
-   /user _target_user name_ specifies the user name of the user whose RSOP data is to be displayed.
-   /scope { user | computer } displays either user or computer results. Valid values for the /scope parameter are user or computer. If you omit the /scope parameter, gpresult displays both user and computer settings.
-   /v specifies that the output display verbose policy information.
-   /z specifies that the output display all available information about Group Policy. Because this parameter produces more information than the /v parameter, redirect output to a text file when you use this parameter. For example, gpresult /z >policy.txt.
-   /? displays help at the command prompt.

To run the gpresult command, use the following syntax:

-   gpresult [/s computer [/u domain\ user /p password]] [/user target_user name] [/scope {user|computer}] [/v] [/z]

##### shutdown
The shutdown command is used to shutdown local and remote systems. The following options can be used with the shutdown command:

-   /i opens the Remote Shutdown Dialog graphical interface window.
-   /l logs off the current user from the local system.
-   /r shuts down and restarts the local computer.
-   /h causes the computer to hibernate.
-   /t [xx] sets a delay time (in seconds) before the computer shuts down.

##### sfc
The sfc is used to scan and restore important Windows system files.

Use the sfc command to run the System File Checker utility as follows:

-   sfc /scannow to scan the system and replace altered files.
-   sfc /scanonce to launch SFC the next time the computer boots.
-   sfc /scanboot to launch SFC every time the computer boots.
-   sfc /revert to reconfigure SFC to its default setting. This can be used to reverse the effects of a /scanboot command.

##### diskpart
Partition and volume management tasks can be completed using the DiskPart utility. For example, to create a new volume, you would first launch an administrator-level command prompt session and run diskpart. Then you would use the commands shown in the following table:

###### list disk
Lists all disks installed in the system.

###### select disk _disk_number_
Specifies which disk in the system you want to manage.

###### online disk
(Optional) Brings the selected disk online if it is currently offline.

###### clean
(Optional) Removes all existing partitions and volumes from the selected hard disk drive.

This operation cannot be undone. All of the data on the disk will be deleted. Before you run this command, back up anything on the disk that you want to keep.

###### convert mbr  and convert gpt
Initializes the selected hard disk and configures it to use the specified partitioning format (MBR or GPT).

The convert command can also be used to convert a basic disk to a dynamic disk or vice versa.

###### create partition primary size= _size_
Creates a new partition on the selected disk. Use the size= _size_ option with this command to specify a size (in MB) for the partition. If this option is omitted, then all of the unallocated space on the selected disk will be assigned to the new partition.

###### list part
Lists all partitions on the specified disk.

###### select part _partition_number_
Selects a specific partition on the selected disk.

###### format
Formats the selected partition with a file system. Use the following options with this command:

-   fs= _file_system_ specifies the file system the partition should be formatted with. You can specify FAT, FAT32, exFAT, NTFS, ReFS, or UDF.
-   label=" _label_" assigns the specified label to the new volume.
-   quick performs a quick format.
-   compress compresses the new volume.

###### assign letter _drive_letter_
Assigns a drive letter to the selected partition.

###### list volume
Lists all volumes on all hard disks in the system.

###### add disk= _disk_number_
Adds a mirror to an existing simple volume using the specified disk.

###### extend
Adds space to an existing volume. Use the following options with this command:

-   size= _size_ specifies the amount of space (in MB) to add to the selected volume.
-   disk= _disk_number_ specifies which disk to extend the volume to.

###### expand
Increases the maximum size of a virtual disk.

##### pathping
The pathping command provides a similar function as the tracert utility by identifying problems with routes to remote hosts. It provides detailed information on the hops that go through the network.

##### winver
The winver command displays the About window which shows the version of Windows is running and the build number. It also shows to whom Windows is licensed.