
---
aliases: [ "20230301201929",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-03-01 20:19
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.2
---
## 7.2.4 Settings Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Windows Settings highlights
-   Windows Settings categories and subcategories

### Windows Settings Highlights
In the Windows Settings app, you can easily navigate areas to customize and configure the Windows operating system. Microsoft has moved most of the configuration settings from the Control Panel program to the Settings app for ease of navigation and to make it more user-friendly, especially with more users on tablets and other non-PC devices.

Here are some highlights of the Settings app:

-   **System:** Use the options found in this category to specify how your system performs in areas such as:
    -   Display - monitors, brightness, night light, display profile.
    -   Sound - volume levels, output, input, and sound devices.
    -   Power - sleep, battery usage, battery saver.
    -   Storage - storage space, drives, configuration rules.
-   **Network & internet:** From this category, you can view and manage settings that affect your ability to access your local network and the internet. This category includes options for:
    -   Ethernet - configuring your settings relating to your network interface card, such as IP address, default servers, DHCP services, and more.
    -   VPN - add, connect, and manage.
    -   Proxy - proxy server for Wi-Fi and Ethernet connections.
    -   Dial-up - set up a dial-up internet connection.
-   **Personalization**: Here you can make your working environment more inviting by customizing things like:
    -   Backgrounds
    -   Accent colors
    -   Themes
    -   Start display
    -   Taskbar
    -   Fonts
-   **Windows Update:** This category includes options to view and manage the updates Windows has for your computer. A few of the options include:
    -   The ability to pause updated from being installed for a short period of time.
    -   The ability to set the time updates are installed.
    -   The ability to view the updates which have been installed.
    -   The ability to receive optional updates.
-   **Privacy & Security:** This category has options for keeping the system secure.
    -   Windows security - antivirus, browser, firewall, and network protection for your devices.
    -   The ability to find a lost device.
    -   Advanced settings for developers.
-   **Windows permissions:**
    -   General - advertising ID, local content, app launchers, settings suggestions, and productivity tools.
    -   Speech - online speech recognition for dictation and other voice-based interactions.
    -   Inking & typing personalization - personal dictionary, words in your dictionary.
    -   Diagnostics & feedback - diagnostic data, inking and typing data, tailored experiences, feedback frequency.
    -   Search permissions
    -   App permissions
    -   More
-   **Bluetooth & devices:** Lets you manage devices, such as your mouse, keyboard, and printers.
-   **Apps:** This category allows you to see and manage the apps installed on your device.
-   **Accounts:** Used to manage the Microsoft account for the device, sign-in options, or add extra users to the device. Also includes Windows backup.
-   **Time and Language:** Here the device's date, time, region, and language can all be changed.
-   **Gaming:** For those using the device for gaming, there are settings here for managing features of Xbox and game mode.

### Windows Settings Categories and Subcategories

#### System
Within the System category you will find the following subcategories:

-   Display
-   Sound
-   Notifications
-   Focus assist
-   Power
-   Storage
-   Multitasking
-   Activation
-   Troubleshoot
-   Recovery
-   Projecting to this PC
-   Remote Desktop
-   Clipboard
-   About

#### Bluetooth & devices
Within the Network & Internet category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Devices
-   Printers & scanners
-   Your Phone
-   Cameras
-   Mouse
-   Pen & Windows Ink
-   AutoPlay
-   USB

#### Network & internet
Within the Network & Internet category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Ethernet
-   VPN
-   Proxy
-   Dial-up
-   Advanced network settings

#### Personalization
Within the Personalization category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Background
-   Colors
-   Themes
-   Lock screen
-   Touch keyboard
-   Start
-   Taskbar
-   Fonts
-   Device usage

#### Apps
Within the App category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Apps & features
-   Default apps
-   Offline maps
-   Optimal features
-   Apps for websites
-   Video playback
-   Startup

#### Accounts
Within the Accounts category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Your info
-   Email & accounts
-   Sign-in options
-   Family & other users
-   Windows backup
-   Access work or school

#### Time & Language
Within the Time & Language category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Date & time
-   Language & region
-   Typing
-   Speech

#### Gaming
Within the Update & Security category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Xbox Game Bar
-   Captures
-   Game Mode

#### Accessibility
Within the Ease of Access category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Vision:
    -   Text size
    -   Visual effects
    -   Mouse pointer and touch
    -   Text cursor
    -   Magnifier
    -   Color filters
    -   Contrast themes
    -   Narrator
-   Hearing:
    -   Audio
    -   Captions
-   Interaction
    -   Speech
    -   Keyboard
    -   Mouse
    -   Eye control

#### Privacy & security
Within the Privacy category, you will find the following subcategories:

-   Security
    -   Windows Security
    -   Find my device
    -   For developers
-   Windows permissions
    -   General
    -   Speech
    -   Inking & typing personalization
    -   Diagnostics & feedback
    -   Activity history
    -   Search permissions
    -   Searching Windows
-   App permissions
    -   Location
    -   Camera
    -   Microphone
    -   Voice activation
    -   Notifications
    -   Account info
    -   Contacts
    -   Phone calls
    -   Call history
    -   Email
    -   Tasks
    -   Messaging
    -   Radios
    -   App diagnostics
    -   Automatic file downloads
    -   Documents
    -   Download folder
    -   Music library
    -   Pictures
    -   Videos
    -   File system
    -   Screenshot borders
    -   Screenshots and apps

#### Windows Update
-   Available Updates
-   More options
    -   Pause updates
    -   Update history
        -   Uninstall updates
        -   Recovery options
    -   Advance options
    -   Windows Insider Program