
---
aliases: [ "20230302104130",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-02 10:41
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.4
---
## 7.4.3 Desktop Application Management Facts
This lesson covers the following topics:
-   System requirements for applications
-   Distribution methods
-   Installation and management

### System Requirements for Applications
Applications will have a list of requirements needed for successful installation and operation. The following table contains several areas to examine before installation of an application.
#### 32-bit vs 64-bit dependency
The phrases _32-bit_ and _64-bit_ referencing the architecture that the CPU, operating system, drivers, and software programs (including applications) use.  

-   64-bit processor can process 64 bits of data at once.
-   -   This is exponentially faster than a 32-bit processor.
-   64-bit allows access to much more physical memory than 32-bit.
-   An application that requires a 32-bit processor is compatible with a 64-bit processor.
-   An application that requires a 64-bit processor is not compatible with a 32-bit processor.
-   Most processors today are 64-bit.
-   To find which processor your devices has, go to one of the following:
	- **Windows Settings** > **System** > **About**
	- **Control Panel** > **System and Security** >**System**
#### Dedicated graphics card vs Integrated graphics
A _graphics card_ is hardware that displays the images on a monitor or screen.  

- A dedicated graphics card:
-   -   Is a separate piece of hardware that's often installed on the motherboard.
    -   Has a its own separate memory and processor (GPU).
    -   Contains memory files called VRAM (video random access memory).
    -   -   VRAM is where data that is displayed is stored.
    -   Receives images, writes them to VRAM, converts to analog signals, then displays signals on screen.
- Integrated Graphics Processing Unit (iGPU):
-   -   The GPU is integrated into the CPU.
    -   Shares memory with the computer's system.
    -   Can have conflicts with CPU.
    -   Come standard on most computers.
    -   Are sufficient for many applications.

#### RAM Requirements
_RAM_ is the short-term memory of a computer where working data and machine code is actively being processed or accessed.  
-   Data in this memory form can be lost when the computer is shut down.
-   The larger the RAM, the more data and applications it can process quickly.

#### CPU Requirements
_CPU_ is hardware that acts like the brain of the computer as it processes instructions through a control unit and an arithmetic and logic unit.
-   CPUs retrieve instructions, decode them, and perform the calculations.
-   CPUs can have from one to sixty-four cores.
    -   The more cores a CPU has, the more instructions it can process at once.
-   CPU ratings are according to the processing clock speed.

#### External Hardware Tokens
_External hardware tokens_ are physical devices, such as key fobs or USB tokens, that are used for security purposes. They could be used to verify ownership of the application software or authentication of the user of the app.

#### Storage Requirements
To install an application, files must be downloaded on to the computer. These files require adequate space on the hard disk drive or on a solid state drive (SSD).  
-   These are files that are permanent unless intentionally deleted.
-   To check available disk space in Windows:
-   -   Open **File Explorer**.
    -   Click on **This PC**.
    -   Under _Devices and drives_, right-click a _**device**_ (such as Local Disk (C:) and select **Properties**.

#### OS requirements
Applications can only run on operating systems with which they can communicate.  
Examples of different operating systems are:  
-   Windows
-   Linux
-   MacOS
Check to make sure you have a Windows compatible version of an application before installing on a Windows device. For example, an application created for a Linux OS will not be able to operate in a Windows environment.

### Distribution Methods
Applications can be installed from either physical media or from a digital download.
Physical media examples:
-   CD
-   DVD
-   USB device

Digital downloads can include:
-   Executable files, such as .exe or .msi.
-   ISO files.
    -   _ISO files_ or _ISO images_ are an exact copy of files from a disk.
    -   ISO files provide ease of distribution through digital transfer.
    -   ISO files provide ease of backup through allowing burning of files onto physical media.
-   _Mounting_ the ISO image is to make the files accessible through one of the following methods:
-   -   Opening through a utility program.
    -   Opening through the computer's file system.
-   To mount an ISO
-   file in Windows:
    -   Open **File Explorer**.
    -   Right-click the ISO image and select **Mount**.

### Installation and Management
If you have confirmed that your system meets all the requirements, you can start the installation process. To install a desktop application on a Windows system:
-   Create a restore point in case there are problems in the installation process.
-   Run the installer file, which is usually an executable file such as:
-   .exe
-   .msi
-   If the installer is distributed in a compressed archive file, unzip the file, then run the installer file from the extracted files.

Be aware of the following facts about managing applications.
-   Installation typically modifies the registry, creates shortcuts, and configures other settings required by the application.
-   Installation of an application usually creates a tile on the Start menu and may also create a shortcut on the desktop. A _shortcut_ is a pointer file that identifies the location of the executable file that runs the application.
    -   Shortcuts that point to removable drives (such as CD/DVD drives) or network drives could become unavailable if the referenced drive is disconnected.
    -   During installation, you can often choose to add shortcuts for only the current user or all users.
    -   The shortcut also identifies a directory that the application uses or references when it first starts. You can modify the directory by changing the **Start in** property for the shortcut or executable file.
-   By default, applications are installed into the Program Files directory on the root of the system drive.
    -   During installation, you typically can specify an alternate install location.
    -   64-bit operating system versions include an additional folder named Program Files (x86). 32-bit applications are installed into this folder.
-   Users must have the correct permissions or rights to install applications. The ability to install applications depends on the user's group membership and the operating system:
#### Users
Users who are members of only the Users group are not able to install applications. If you're signed into a limited account, you see a dialog box asking you to enter an administrative password.
#### Administrators
Only people with administrative privileges can install programs in Windows 10. If you're already logged on with an administrative account, Windows 10 asks you if you want to allow the program to make changes to the computer.

-   In some cases, users require special privileges or rights to run applications. For example, legacy applications that access the system in certain ways may require running the application as an administrator.
-   Copying an application's shortcut to the C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup folder will cause that application to be automatically launched every time the system is booted. You can also use Task Scheduler to configure an application to run automatically based upon event triggers that you define.
-   Many applications as they run create data files (such as documents or video files), and might also require creating temporary files. The user must have sufficient permissions to the directories where the data and temporary files are created.

## 7.4.5 Application Compatibility Facts
Applications are software programs designed to perform specific tasks. Adding an application to a system can expand the functionality of a device or network. An application must be written in a language and form that the operating system it is running on understands. There are a few ways to enable an application that is not compatible with the Windows operating system being used.

This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Updates and newer versions
-   Compatibility mode
-   Hyper-V

### Updates and Newer Versions
Before installing an application, be sure to check all the application requirements including the version of Windows compatible with the application. Keep in mind:
- If you are updating an operating system to a newer version of Windows, some older applications may no longer be compatible.
- Often, application manufacturers offer updates for the application to provide compatibility to newer versions of Windows or will offer a new version of the application for purchase.
- Updating current software or purchasing a new compatible version is the simplest and longest-lasting solution; therefore, it is the preferred option

### Compatibility Mode
There are times when there are no updates or new versions available and you still need to use an older application. One way to do this is through Windows Compatibility Mode.

Compatibility Mode can be used to run an older program using settings from a previous version of Windows. The Program Compatibility Assistant (PCA) runs in the background and monitors applications for known compatibility issues when they are run. When a potential issue with an application is detected, the PCA will prompt the user and provide links to recommended solutions.

You can also start Compatibility Mode using the following steps:

1.  Right-click the program's .exe file, shortcut, or installation file.
2.  Select **Properties**.
3.  Select the **Compatibility** tab.

Within the Compatibility window, the following options are available:

-   Use the Compatibility Troubleshooter to automatically determine the settings for the application to run on the current version of Windows. If a solution is found when using the Program Compatibility Troubleshooter, the settings are stored and the application will be launched using the modified environment.
-   Manually specify predefined compatibility mode.
    -   The predefined mode replicates the environment of a previous version of a Windows operating system.
    -   You can manually specify settings by selecting **Run this program in compatibility mode for** and then select the version of Windows the application was written for.
    -   You may have to try more than one version to get the application to run correctly.
        
        The service pack level is an important consideration when selecting a previous version.
        
-   Manually set compatibility settings without selecting a specific version of Windows. The options that can be configured include:
    -   Reduced color mode which allows applications with a limited color pallet to display correctly. Select one of the following:
        -   8-bit (256) color
        -   16-bit (65536) color
    -   Run in 640 x 480 screen resolution which allows low resolution applications to display properly.
    -   Disable display scaling on high DPI settings which turns off automatic resizing of applications when large-scale fonts are being used.
    -   Run this program as administrator which configures the application to run with administrator-level privileges. Old applications that ran on legacy versions of Windows may require elevated access to run correctly.

### Hyper-V
Another option for compatibility issues is to use Hyper-V to create a virtual machine running an older version of Windows. You can then run the application in the virtual machine.

To install Hyper-V on Windows, a system must meet the following requirements:

-   Enterprise, Pro, or Education editions
-   CPU support for VM Monitor Mode Extension (VT-c on Intel CPUs)
-   64-bit processor with Second Level Address Translation (SLAT)
-   4GB or more memory

To enable Hyper-V through Settings:

-   Right click **Start**.
-   Select **Apps and Features.**
-   Select **Turn Windows Features on or off.**
-   Select **Hyper-V.**
-   Click **OK**.


## 7.4.8 Microsoft Store Applications
This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Microsoft Store apps vs. desktop apps
-   App management
-   Sideloading apps

### Microsoft Store Apps vs. Desktop Apps
_Desktop applications_ are software programs created to perform a specific task or function on an individual computer or device. _Microsoft Store Apps_ are software programs similar to desktop applications, but they have been screened for security and verified for Windows compatibility. They are available through the Microsoft Store.

When Windows introduced the (then) Windows Store in Windows 8, it contained apps that were created to be used across Microsoft platforms such as laptops, tablets, and smartphones. These apps are called Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps.

Over time, and with the introduction of Windows 11, the Microsoft Store has made changes to give users a better experience, including:

-   Applications are no longer required to be built on the UWP framework. Any app framework can work, including .NET, Xamarin, Java, Win32, and Electron.
-   A new user interface provides easier navigation.
-   There are more inviting commerce options for developers.

These changes have reduced the divide between the Microsoft Store apps and desktop applications.

### App Management
To install a Microsoft Store application:

1.  Click the **Microsoft Store** icon from the taskbar. Or, open the Start menu and click the Store icon.
2.  Browse or search for the desired app.
3.  Select the app tile.
4.  Select **Get** (some apps cost money and some are free).
5.  Follow the remaining prompts.

To manage the application once installed, use any of the following:

-   Right-click Start and select **Apps & Features**. This opens the Settings app. From here you can:
    -   Configure advanced options, such as:
        -   View specification
        -   Set background apps permissions
        -   Set to run at log-in
        -   Repair and reset the app
    -   Uninstall the app.
-   Right-click the application's tile from the Start menu. From there you have the following options:
    -   Pin to Start.
    -   Run as administrator.
    -   Pin to taskbar.
    -   App settings. This option takes you to the app's setting in Windows Settings.
    -   Uninstall. This option removes the app from the device.
    -   Remove from list. This option removes the app from the Start menu.

### Sideloading Apps
There are times when you may need an application that is not available in the Microsoft Store, such as a custom application created for an organization. You can install such programs through sideloading. Be aware that sideloaded apps are not certified by Microsoft; therefore, they may not be secure.

To sideload an app in Windows 10:

1.  Open Windows **Settings.**
2.  Select **Update & Security.**
3.  Select **For developers.**
4.  Under Use developer features, click **Sideload apps** or **Developer mode**.
5.  Click **Yes**.

To sideload an app in Windows 11:

1.  Open Windows **Settings.**
2.  Select **Privacy & security.**
3.  Select **For developers.**
4.  Under Developer Mode select **On.**