
---
aliases: [ "20230302194443",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-02 19:44
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.5
---
## 7.5.4 Linux Application Management Facts
When installing software on a Linux system, you usually install a precompiled application or service from a software package. A _package_ is a set of software that contains executables (and other files) that have been precompiled and configured for a specific hardware architecture and Linux distribution.

Use the shell commands described in the following table to manage the applications and processes on Linux:

#### yum
The yum command installs packages on Linux systems that use the Red Hat Package Manager (RPM). The yum command can automatically locate and download RPM packages for you by searching one or more repositories on the internet. It can install the package and all its dependencies at the same time.  
  
The syntax for using yum is as follows:

-   **yum install _package_name_** installs the specified package.
-   **yum remove _package_name_** uninstalls the specified package.
-   **yum list installed** lists all packages installed.
-   **yum list installed _package_name_** checks to see if the specified package is installed.
-   **yum list available** displays a list of all packages available for installation within the internet repositories yum is configured to use.
-   **yum list updates** generates a list of updates available for all installed packages.
-   **yum update _package_name_** installs updates for the specified package.
-   **yum info _package_name_** displays information about the specified package, including its version and dependencies.
-   **yum search _keyword_** searches for any packages that contain the specified keyword in the description, summary, or package name fields within the internet repositories yum is configured to use.

#### apt-get
The apt-get command installs packages on Linux systems that use the Debian Package Manager (dpkg). The apt-get command can automatically locate and download Debian packages by searching one or more repositories on the internet. It installs the package and all its dependencies at the same time.  
  
The syntax for using apt-get is as follows:

-   **apt-get install _package_name_** installs the specified package.
-   **apt-get remove _package_name_** uninstalls the specified package.
-   **apt-get update** displays information about all packages available within the internet repositories apt-get is configured to use.
-   **apt-get dist-upgrade** upgrades all installed packages to the newest version.

#### apt
The apt command is similar in design and function to the apt-get suite of tools mentioned above. It manages dpkg packages on Debian and Ubuntu-based distributions. You can also use it for locating, downloading, and installing packages found in online repositories.  
  
The syntax for using apt is as follows:

-   **apt install _package_name_** installs the specified package.
-   **apt remove _package_name_** uninstalls the specified package.
-   **apt search _search_term_** searches for packages with the earch term found in the configured repositories.
-   **apt update** updates repositories with the latest list of available packages found in the configured repositories.
-   **apt dist-upgrade** upgrades all installed packages with any available updated packages.

#### ps
You can use the ps utility to display running processes on a Linux system. Many options can be used with the ps command. Several commonly used options include:

-   **ps** displays only those processes associated with the current shell session.
-   **ps -e** displays all processes running on the system.
-   **ps -f** displays extended information about processes.
-   **ps -l** displays information about processes in long format. This option can be combined with the **-e** and **-f** options to display extended process information in long format.

There are some commonly used combinations of options:

-   **ps aux** displays all running processes and includes the user (owner) column in the output.
-   **ps -ef** displays all processes and includes extended information.

You can display the following fields in the output of the ps command, depending on which options are included with the command:

-   **PID** displays the process ID of the process.
-   **TTY** displays the name of the shell session the process is running within.
-   **TIME** displays the amount of CPU time used by the process.
-   **CMD** displays the name of the command that was run to create the process.
-   **UID** displays the user ID that owns the process.
-   **PPID** displays the PID of the process's parent.
-   **C** displays the amount of CPU utilization consumed by the process.
-   **STIME** displays the time that the process started.
-   **F** displays any flags associated with the process.
-   **S** displays the current state of the process.
-   **PRI** displays the priority of the process.
-   **NI** displays the nice value of the process.
-   **SZ** displays the size of the process in RAM.