
---
aliases: [ "20230302200354",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-02 20:03
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.6
---
## 7.6.3 Digital Content Management Facts
This lesson covers the following topics
- Software Licensing
- Digital Rights Management

### Software Licensing
it is important to understand how software licensing works because violating software license agreements could potentially expose an organization to litigation. The following table describes the two general software licensing models used.

#### Licensing Types
##### Proprietary
The proprietary licensing model is used by many software vendors. Each vendor you purchase a proprietary license from should provide an End User License Agreement (EULA) that dictates the specific terms for that software title.  
  
There are several key facts that you need to remember about proprietary software licensing:

-   When you purchase this type of software, you are not purchasing the software itself. Instead, you are purchasing a license to use the software.
-   You are not allowed to access the software's source code and make modifications. Usually, the source code is not made available to customers. A EULA does not typically allow you to reverse engineer the software to recreate the source code.
-   The license usually permits you to install the software only on a fixed number of computers. Installation limits are commonly enforced by the software vendor using online software activation. If you try to use the same activation code too many times, the software will not activate and can't be used.

Two different, general types of licenses are usually offered by software vendors:

-   Personal licenses are intended for home and small business customers.
    -   Usually, the license allows the software to be installed on only one to three systems.
    -   Because they are limited in the number of allowed installs, personal licenses are usually less expensive than alternatives.
    -   Personal licenses may not be the best choice for large organizations, which may need to purchase hundreds or even thousands of licenses for a given software title.
-   Enterprise licenses (which are also sometimes called volume licenses or corporate use licenses) are intended for medium and large organizations.
    -   Enterprise licenses allow the customer to install the software without restriction using the same activation code (typically until a maximum cap is reached).
    -   Because of the volume involved, the customer is usually able to purchase an enterprise license for much less than the cost of purchasing individual personal licenses.
    -   Enterprise licenses are usually too expensive for most home or small business users.

##### Open Source
In the past, open source software was exclusive to Linux and Unix operating systems. However, many open source applications are now available for Windows and Mac operating systems. Open source licensing is very different from proprietary licensing:

-   Open source software is usually freely distributed. You can typically download, install, and use the software without paying a license fee.
-   Most open source software is distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL), which requires that the source code for the software be freely distributable to anyone who wants it. This means you can download the source code for an application, modify it, recompile it, and then use the modified version of the software. You can even post it for others to use if you make your source code freely available as well.

Organizations that release open source applications typically use a variety of means to generate revenue so they can keep developing new products:

-   Contributions - Some open source projects ask you to contribute financially if you use their software.
-   Added functionality - Some open source projects release a base version of their software for free and charge a fee for highly desirable add-ons.
-   Support contracts - Some open source projects release their software for free and charge a fee for technical support.
-   Training contracts - Like support contracts, some open source projects also provide training for a fee.
-   Partnerships - Sometimes an open source project partners with a commercial organization. In this situation, two versions of an application are created, one that is proprietary and one that is open source. The proprietary version is typically used to finance the development of the free version.
-   Subscriptions - Sometimes an open source project sells subscriptions for online accounts or server access.

### Digital Rights Management (DRM)
_Digital rights management (DRM)_ is the use of technologies and strategies to restrict the use of copyrighted digital data (such as software, music, images, videos, and games) to only those who are authorized. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) is a US copyright law that made it criminal to copy, access, or share proprietary data and media, or to create or distribute technologies that can circumvent DRM programs or systems. Violating this law could expose an organization to litigation and could cause job loss for you as a system administrator.

Common DRM technologies used to protect digital copyrighted materials are described in the following table.

#### DRM Technologies
##### Copy protection
Copy protection is used to prevent materials from unauthorized copying. This includes the following technologies:

-   Encryption - Makes digital materials accessible only through authorized decryption software or devices.
-   Fingerprinting - Identifies unique properties of a file and compares them to a database of fingerprinted files to track access to materials.
-   Digital watermarks - Embed traceable information into the file.

##### Permission management
Permission management is also used to control access and distribution. This includes the following technologies:

-   User authentication - Requires authentication credentials from an authorized user to access materials.
-   IP address authentication - Restricts access to specific authorized IP addresses.
-   Licenses - Restrict access to those systems that have gone through the proper activation process. Licenses use activation codes. Key facts are:
    -   Online activation typically works by requiring the user to:
        -   Install the program.
        -   Use the vendor provided access code to activate the program online.
        -   Use only the number of activations permitted by the purchased license.
    -   Two forms of online software activation are used by software vendors:
        -   One-time activation - The license is activated once, usually right after the product is installed. Once activated, the product remains activated.
        -   Persistent activation - The license is continuously re-activated online at specified intervals. This allows the software vendor to deactivate installations if the conditions of the license agreement have been violated.
    -   Using online activation helps software vendors ensure their products are used in compliance with the license agreement. However, it also has several drawbacks that require you to contact the vendor to reactivate the software:
        -   Online activation mechanisms can fail if an internet connection isn't available.
        -   A small system change can deactivate the software. For example, adding RAM to the system or upgrading the CPU could cause the activation system to think the application has been illegally copied to a new computer system.