
---
aliases: [ "20230303141943",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-03 14:19
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.7
---
## 7.7.3 Virtual Memory Facts
This lesson covers the following topics
- Physical RAM swapping
- Disk Thrashing
- Virtual memory management

### Physical RAM Swapping
Virtual memory plays an important role in the Windows operating system because it allows more applications to run on the system than physical memory can support. Virtual memory is simulated memory that is implemented as a page file on a hard drive. It is used by operating systems to simulate physical RAM using hard disk space.

Virtual memory key terms:
-   _Swapping_ or _paging_ - The process of moving data from RAM to disk and back.
-   _Virtual Memory Manager_ (VMM) - A mechanism in Windows that automatically manages the swapping of data between physical memory and the hard disk.

The VMM follows these steps to manage applications:

1.  The VMM assigns virtual addressing to an application. This is known as _logical segmentation_.
2.  The application is loaded into physical RAM (absolute address space). The process doesn't recognize its location in physical RAM; it only recognizes its virtual space.
3.  As the user launches other applications, the VMM allocates space to those applications in true physical RAM.
4.  When there is no more space in physical RAM, the VMM takes the application that hasn't been used for the longest period of time and place it in the page file on the hard drive. This is known as _paging out_. Likewise, when an application is moved from the page file back into physical RAM, it is known as _paging in_.
5.  If the system needs access to an application that has been paged out from physical RAM, a problem known as a _page fault_ occurs. When this happens, the VMM will page out (to the page file on the hard drive) the program in the physical RAM that hasn't been used for thelongest period of time. It then will page in (to physical RAM) the application currently being accessed.

### Disk Thrashing
Accessing data stored in RAM is faster than accessing data on disk (in virtual memory). For this reason, the Windows OS is programmed to put the active applications in physical RAM and the least active application data on the disk. _Disk thrashing_ occurs when the physical RAM is inadequate and the CPU becomes over utilized in a continuous state of swapping data from RAM to disk and back again.

Symptoms of disk thrashing include:
-   High disk access statistics
-   Hard disk drive light constantly lit
-   Slow system performance while running applications
-   Slow response when switching between applications

Mitigation of disk thrashing includes:
-   Run fewer applications
-   Install more physical RAM (recommended)

### Virtual Memory Management
In most cases, the VMM does an adequate job managing the virtual memory for a Windows operating system. However, it is simple to manipulate this process to tweak system performance.

For manual virtual memory management in Windows 10 or Windows 11, go to Windows Settings > System > About > Advanced system settings > Advanced tab > Performance/Settings > Advanced tab > Virtual memory.

Virtual memory management concepts to remember are:

-   You can manually configure the maximum size of the virtual memory paging file and the disk where the paging file is stored.
-   The most common recommended minimum page file size is about 1.5 times the amount of physical RAM with a maximum of three times the current size of RAM. However, there are exceptions to this rule:
    -   Systems that have a very small amount of physical RAM installed may require a page file that is 2 times the size of the installed RAM.
    -   Systems with very large amounts of physical RAM installed typically don't require a large page file.
-   To increase performance, move the page file to a different physical disk than that used by the operating system. You can also divide the paging file between two drives to increase performance.
-   If the paging file is on the system drive, Windows creates a memory dump file if the system crashes. Support personnel might be able to use this file to help identify what caused the system crash. To save a memory dump, the paging file must reside on the system partition.
