
---
aliases: [ "20230303145843",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-03 14:58
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.8
---
## 7.8.2 Troubleshooting Windows Facts Part 1
As a PC technician, you will encounter problems with Windows operating system from time to time. This lesson includes several options for troubleshooting common Windows OS issues.

This lesson covers the following topics:
-   Reboot
-   Troubleshoot from the Windows Recovery Environment
-   Use additional troubleshooting options

### Reboot
While "Did you try rebooting?" seems cliché, it is the first step in troubleshooting operating systems for a reason. Rebooting can solve several issues because it:

-   Clears random access memory (RAM), which resolves problems caused by RAM leakage.
-   Stops tasks that are running.
-   Allows the computer to cool down, which helps an overheating problem.
-   Can restart an incomplete update, which can correct problems caused from an unexpected shutdown during installation.

### Troubleshoot from the Windows Recovery Environment
Boot problems can be caused by all sorts of things, such as:

-   Updates
-   Improper shutdown
-   Malware
-   Partition resizing problems
-   Peripheral devices

If you experience several startup errors in a row, the Windows Recovery Environment should automatically load when you start the computer. If not, hold down the Shift key and select Restart from the Start menu. Once the Recovery Environment is started, select **Troubleshoot** to access the **Advanced options** menu.

The following table describes four tools found in the Advanced Options menu of the Windows Recovery Environment.
#### Startup Repair
This tool fixes damaged or missing system files, which can stop the boot process.  
  
Startup Repair can fix only certain problems, such as replacing any missing or corrupt systems files that might be preventing Windows from booting.

#### System Restore
This tool lets you revert the system back to a previously created restore point. A restore point is like a snapshot of the computer's settings and data at a moment in time.  
  
System Restore does not change files like documents, photos, or email. If Windows stops working properly, this tool can be helpful to go back to a restore point when it was working properly.

#### System Image Recovery
This tool installs a complete image of the Windows system including the operating system, the settings, personal files, hardware drivers, and software.  
  
This option is available only if you have previously created a system image and saved it to an external drive.

#### Uninstall Updates
This tool allows you to roll back or uninstall a previously installed Windows update.

### Use Additional Troubleshooting Options
#### Restart Services
Services are low-level tasks that run in the background with no user interaction and should begin automatically with startup. Important services that are not running properly can result in OS problems.  
  
Services can be managed using the Windows Services app. One way to open the Windows Services app is by typing 'services' in Windows search and then selecting the Services app from the Best match options.  
  
From the Services app you can:

-   See the services that are set to start automatically and those that are set to start manually.
-   Right-click the application and select either Restart Stop, Start, Pause, and Resume.

You can check for errors relating to a service using Event Viewer.

#### Use System File Checker
Corrupted system files can cause:
-   Boot problems
-   Slow performance
-   Inability to open a file
-   Unexpected shutdowns
-   Error screens

System File Checker is a utility that scans the operating system files, and (when possible) replaces corrupted, altered, or incorrect files.  
  
To run System File Checker:
-   Open Windows Terminal (Admin). This opens PowerShell.
-   At the PowerShell prompt, type:  
    'DISM.exe /Online /Cleanup-image /Restorehealth' and press **Enter**

It may take up to 30 minutes to complete.

Once the above has been completed:
-   Type 'sfc /scannow' at the PowerShell prompt.
-   Press **Enter**.
-   Watch for the message: The operation completed successfully.

#### Rebuild Windows profiles
If a user profile becomes corrupted it will prevent the user from accessing Windows.  
  
Troubleshooting options are:
-   Rebuild the profile:
    -   Type 'regedit' in Windows search bar.
    -   Open Registry Editor.
    -   Rename any corrupted files names.
-   Create a new profile:
    -   Create a restore point.
    -   Delete corrupted files from the registry.
    -   Copy and paste clean files from the previous profile.

#### Uninstall/reinstall/update applications
Conflicts between applications and the operating system can cause Windows to have problems.  
  
Steps to troubleshoot application conflicts are:
1.  Check the application's system requirements for compatibility.
2.  Check for updates in:
    -   Windows
    -   The application
    -   The application's drivers

If these steps do not resolve the conflicts, uninstalling the application and reinstalling it often resolves the conflict.

#### Add resources
When the system is running sluggishly or applications often hang, it may be a resource issue.  
  
Low memory warnings can indicate the RAM is insufficient. To troubleshoot inadequate RAM:
-   Close any unnecessary programs.
-   Configure the virtual memory to have greater capacity.
-   Check for malware.
-   Add more RAM.

Adding more RAM by itself may not increase the speed of a sluggish system because increased RAM may need more processing power to go with it. Upgrading the CPU when you add RAM can improve system performance.  
  
Keep in mind when upgrading the CPU, the more cores a CPU has, the more processing it can do at once (increasing performance).

## 7.8.4 Troubleshooting Windows Facts Part 2
This lesson is a continuation of common symptoms of Windows OS problems and tools to troubleshoot them.

This lesson covers the following topics:
-   System instability
-   Operating system not found error
-   USB controller resource warnings
-   Time drift

### System Instability
System instability, including such things as slow profile loading and frequent shutdowns, often results in a Windows stop error or kernel error. It is often referred to as the blue screen of death because of the color of the background of the error message. Starting with Windows 11, the background color was changed to black; it is now known as black screen of death.

Erratic and unpredictable system behavior can come from software and hardware causes, such as insufficient RAM or CPU overutilization. The following table list several conditions that may lead to the black screen of death message.
#### Software-based causes
System instability and the black screen of death can come from the following possible software sources.

-   Malware can corrupt drivers or system files. Be sure to keep anti-malware up to date.
-   New updates can cause system instability. Rollback or uninstall new updates that cause errors.
-   Outdated drivers.
-   Outdated applications.
-   Outdated Windows software. Update drivers, applications, and Windows regularly.

#### Hardware-based causes
System instability and the black screen of death can come from the following possible hardware sources:

-   Overheated hard drive.
-   Overheated hardware.
    -   Make sure ventilation areas are clean and unrestricted.
    -   Listen for a functioning fan.
-   Peripheral device malfunctioning. Unplug all peripherals except the keyboard and mouse. Plug each device in one at a time to find the faulty device.
-   Hardware failure.
    -   Perform a hardware diagnostic test to identify the problem.
    -   Backup regularly to avoid data loss.
-   Loose hardware (RAM chips, hard drives, data cables, etc.). Secure any loose chips, drives, or cables.

### Operating System not Found Error
When you turn on a computer, a low-level firmware calls on the operating system to start up. The low-level firmware is the Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) or the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI). Problems with the firmware can cause the missing operating system error. Some possible BIOS or UEFI problems are:
-   Corrupt files
-   Missing files
-   Incorrect boot order

To troubleshoot these firmware problems:
-   Run a hard drive self-test from the BIOS setup menu. The self-test can indicate the problem or the health of the hard drive.
-   Check the boot order sequence. Make sure the hard disk that has Windows on it is the first drive in the list.

A missing operating system error can also result from a loose hard drive or from loose cables. Be sure to check both for secure connections.

### USB Controller Resource Warnings
Some facts to understand about USB ports include:
-   USB ports use endpoints.
    -   Endpoints are data buffers that aid in communication between the USB device and the host.
    -   Endpoints allow traffic in only one direction.
    -   Endpoints come in pairs: one outgoing endpoint and one incoming endpoint.
-   3.0 USB ports are limited to 16 endpoint pairs and are faster than 2.0 USB ports.
-   2.0 USB ports are limited to 32 endpoint pairs and are slower than 3.0 USB ports.

When plugging in a USB device, the error message Not enough USB controller resources may occur. This error usually occurs when plugging into a 3.0 USB port because of its limited capacity. Troubleshooting options include:

-   Move the cable to a 2.0 USB port. This often solves the problem.
-   Use a USB hub that is plugged into an 2.0 USB port and has its own power source. USB ports limit how much power can be drawn from them.
-   Reinstall the USB host controllers.

### Time Drift
_Time drift_ is the condition that occurs when the Windows system time is out of sync with the server. Indicators of a time drift problem include:

-   Logon restrictions. If you have restrictions on when you can be logged on, time drift can make it seem as if you are trying to be logged on at a restricted time.
-   Certificate errors. When timing is off, installed certificates can give an invalid certification notification.
-   Virus scans run at the wrong time.
-   Inaccurate authentication expiration. The Kerberos security system uses time stamps as a security protocol and limits the allowable time difference between client and server.

Troubleshooting steps include:
-   Set the Windows Time Service to start automatically.
-   Manually change the date and time in Settings if needed.
-   Set the maximum tolerance for computer clock synchronization to a five-minute allowance.