
---
aliases: [ "20230303154552",  ]
tags: SEC.101, SEC, PCPro
date_created: 2023-03-03 15:45
---
[[SEC.101 Index]]
# TestOut PC Pro - 7.9
---
## 7.9.4 Scripting Facts
Scripts, scripting, and scripting languages are important pieces of computer systems management. Scripts are text files with commands and structures specific to a scripting language. Scripting is the process of organizing files into these scripts. Scripting languages are interpreted programming languages used to write scripts, generally in a human-readable format.

This lesson covers the following topics:

-   Scripting languages
-   Use cases for scripting
-   Common problems with scripts

### Scripting Languages
Scripting languages is a term used to describe a wide variety of programming languages, typically interpreted. These languages are used to write scripts to translate data between programs, provide bridges between different operating systems, or work with large sets of data and text to provide useful tools for content manipulation. Scripting languages are commonly human readable, designed to be reviewed, understood, and edited by those who are proficient with their use.

The following table describes the most common scripting languages.

#### Python
Python is a high-level, general-purpose programming with a focus on code readability. It is used extensively with large data sets and is very popular with the scientific community. It can also be extended, which allows new features or specific functions to be added to its toolbox. The file extension for a Python script is usually .py.

#### Shells
In the Linux and Unix world, the most popular method of scripting is shell scripting. Although there are several languages that fall under the term shell scripting, the most common forms of shell scripting include:

-   Bourne Shell (sh)—the most commonly used
-   Bourne Again Shell (bash)
-   Korn Shell (ksh)
-   Z Shell (zsh).

Each shell has its own syntax variation, but all are directly related to the Bourne Shell. Shell scripts are extensively used for automation and maintenance in Linux. The file extension for a shell script is usually .sh.

#### Batch Files
Although not technically a scripting language, batch files (.bat) can collect multiple Windows commands and execute them in turn. With the introduction of PowerShell, batch files have become less common, but they’re still used. The file extension for a batch file is .bat.

#### PowerShell
PowerShell started as a Windows-specific tool used to leverage Windows APIs to perform tasks. It has grown to include many common scripting functions. It has greatly increased Windows automation capabilities. The file extension for PowerShell scripts is .ps1.

#### Visual Basic script (VBScript)
VBScript is a Windows-specific language used by systems administrators and web developers. Although VBScript was very popular is previous versions of Windows, it has been widely replaced by PowerShell. The file extension for a VBScript file is .vbs.

#### JavaScript
JavaScript is used widely for website and webpage design. It is the most popular programming language in the world. JavaScript provides many of the design and UI functions of the most popular websites, from Facebook and Amazon, to TikTok. The file extension for a JavaScript file is .js.

### Use Cases for Scripting
Scripting is used for both systems administration and software development. Frequently, a script is used in place of the manual steps for a particular task, such as adding a list of users to a system, or finding and deleting specific files. Administrators sometimes joke that scripts allow them to be lazy, once the script has been written, that is.

The following table describes common tasks you can use scripting for.

#### Automate tasks
The automation of repetitive or data intensive tasks is a core reason for scripting. Three examples of how a script can make a monotonous administrator task simple and time efficient are:

-   Importing a spreadsheet of user information into an Active Directory tree.
-   Renewing the IP leases of DHCP clients after a router update.
-   Restarting a collection of servers. The servers must be restarted in order and each one can restart only after the previous server has finished rebooting.

A script can make a task simple, leaving the administrator to monitor the process, instead of manually performing it.

#### Remap network drives
Frequently, there are routers and switches between the client machines and the servers they connect to. If one of those routers were to fail, be reconfigured, or cause an interruption between client and server, a properly written script could remap necessary network drives.

#### Software installation
Although similar to automation, software installation is mentioned here separately because or its importance. When software standards change or new systems are brought online, a significant amount of time is consumed pushing the required software to a list of servers or desktops. A correctly configured script can automatically download and install software to prepare systems for use within an organization.

#### Automated Backup
Good backups are a sign of a good administrator. Using a script to automate the process, dictating what data to back up and when makes it efficient as well. Automatically backing up a server before it is wiped and reinstalled or repurposed can save you time and headaches.

#### Gathering information
Sometimes administrators need information before they act. As an example, sometimes a specific piece of hardware (let's say a type of NIC) needs to be replaced because of a bug.  
  
With a good script, an administrator can run a query of all machines that might have the same hardware, compile a list of query results, and return the list when it finishes. That way, instead of connecting to each machine and looking manually, the task is done behind the scenes in much less time.

#### Updating Systems
Careful planning of which software updates to apply to what systems, as well as when to apply the updates, is always a good idea. Using scripting, administrators can send the updates to a specific list of systems, at a specific time, and restart those machines as needed.

### Common Problems with Scripts
As with other programming languages, improper structure, syntax, or systems testing can also cause scripts to negatively impact a machine. Such problems can lead to application or system instability, vulnerability to malware, or changes to the core functions of a system. These problems include:

-   Unintentional introduction of malware to a system or systems problems caused by a script.
-   System settings accidentally changed by a script.
-   Browser, application, or systems crashes caused by poor resource management in a script.