
---
aliases: [ "20230225170844",  ]
tags: SEC.201, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-02-25 17:08
---
[[SEC.201 Index]]
# 7.2 - Ethernet MAC Address
---
## MAC Address and Hexadecimal
- AN ethernet MAC address consists of a 46-bit binary value, expressed using 12 hexadecimal values

### Ethernet MAC Address
- In an Ethernet LAN, every devices is connected to the same, shared media. MAC addressing provides a method of device identification at the data link layer of the OSI model
- MAC address is 6 bytes in length
- All MAC addresses must be unique to the Ethernet device or Ethernet interface
	- First 6 hex code are called organizationally unique identifier (OUI)
- An Ethernet MAC address consists of 6 hex vendor OUI code followed by a 6 hex vendor-assigned value

#### Frame Processing
- When a device is forwarding a message to an Ethernet network, the Ethernet header includes a Source MAC address and a Destination MAC address
- When a NIC receives and Ethernet frame, it examines the destination MAC address to see if it matches the physical MAC address that is stored in its RAM
	- If it does not match, the device discards the frame
	- If there is a match, it passes the frame up the OSI layers, where the de-encapsulation process takes place
>[! tip] Note
>Ethernet NICs will also accept frames if the destination MAC address is a broadcast or a multicast group of which the host is a member.
- Any device that is the source or destination of an Ethernet frame, will have an Ethernet NIC and therefore, a MAC address. This includes workstations, servers, printers, mobile devices and routers

#### Unicast MAC address
- In Ethernet, different MAC addresses are used for Layer 2 unicast, broadcast, and multicast communications
	- A unicast MAC address is the unique address that is used when a frame is sent from a single transmitting device to a single destination host
	- The process that a source host uses to determine the destination MAC address associated with an IPv4 address is known as Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
	- The process that a source host uses to determine the destination MAC address associated with an IPv6 address is known as Neighbor Discovery (ND)
- The source MAC address must always be a unicast

#### Broadcast MAC Address
- An ethernet broadcast frame is received and processed by every devices on the Ethernet LAN
- The features of an Ethernet Broadcast
	- It has a destination MAC address of FF-FF-FF-FF-FF-FF in hexadecimal (48 ones in binary).
	- It is flooded out all Ethernet switch ports except the incoming port. It is not forwarded by a router.
	- If the encapsulated data is an IPv4 broadcast packet, this means the packet contains a destination IPv4 address that has all ones (1s) in the host portion. This numbering in the address means that all hosts on that local network (broadcast domain) will receive and process the packet

#### Multicast MAC Address
- An Ethernet multicast frame is received and processed by a group of devices that belong to the same multicast group
	- There is a destination MAC address of 01-00-5E when the encapsulated data is an IPv4 multicast packet and a destination MAC address of 33-33 when the encapsulated data is an IPv6 multicast packet.
	- There are other reserved multicast destination MAC addresses for when the encapsulated data is not IP, such as Spanning Tree Protocol (STP).
	- It is flooded out all Ethernet switch ports except the incoming port, unless the switch is configured for multicast snooping. It is not forwarded by a router, unless the router is configured to route multicast packets.
	- Because multicast addresses represent a group of addresses (sometimes called a host group), they can only be used as the destination of a packet. The source will always be a unicast address.
	- As with the unicast and broadcast addresses, the multicast IP address requires a corresponding multicast MAC address.
