
---
aliases: [ "20230225173457",  ]
tags: SEC.201, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-02-25 17:34
---
[[SEC.201 Index]]
# 7.3 - The MAC Address Table
---
## The MAC Address Table
### Switch Fundamentals
- A layer 2 Ethernet switch uses Layer 2 MAC addresses to make forwarding decisions. 
	- It is completely aware of he data (protocol) being carried in the data portion of the frame, such as an IPv4 packet, an ARP message, or an IPv6 ND packet
	- The switch makes its forwarding decisions based solely on the Layer 2 MAC addresses
- An Ethernet switch examines its MAC address table to make a forwarding decision for each frame, unlike legacy Ethernet hubs that repeat bits out all ports except the incoming port
- When a switch is turned on, the MAC address table is empty
>[! tip] Note
>**The MAC address table is sometimes referred to as a content addressable memory (CAM) table.**

#### Switch Learning and Forwarding
- **Examine the Source MAC Address (Learn)**
	- Every frame that enters a switch is checked for new information to learn.
		-  It does this by examining the source MAC address of the frame and the port number where the frame entered the switch
		- If the source MAC address does not exist, it is added to the table along with the incoming port number. If the source MAC address does exist, the switch updates the refresh timer for that entry. By default, most Ethernet switches keep an entry in the table for 5 minutes.
>[! tip] Note
>If the source MAC address does exist in the table but on a different port, the switch treats this as a new entry. The entry is replaced using the same MAC address but with the more current port number.

##### Switch Learning and Forwarding Cont.
- **Find the Destination MAC Address**
	- If the destination MAC address is a unicast address, the switch will look for a match between the destination MAC address of the frame and an entry in its MAC address table
		- If the destination MAC address is in the table, it will forward the frame out the specified port.
		- If the destination MAC address is not in the table, the switch will forward the frame out all ports except the incoming port. This is called an unknown unicast.
	- If the destination MAC address is a broadcast or a multicast, the frame is also flooded out all ports except the incoming port.

### Filtering Frames
- As a switch receives frames from different devices, it is able to populate its MAC address table by examining the source MAC address of every frame. 
	- When the MAC address table of the switch contains the destination MAC address, it is able to filter the frame and forward out a single port