
---
aliases: [ "20230227141831",  ]
tags: SEC.201, SEC, Cisco
date_created: 2023-02-27 14:18
---
[[SEC.201 Index]]
# 7.4 - Switch Speeds and Forwarding Methods
---
## Frame Forwarding Methods on CISCO Switches
- Switches use one of the following methods for switching data between network ports
- **Store-and-forward switching**
	- This frame forwarding method receives the entire frame and computes the CRC. If the CRC is valid, the switch looks up the destination address, which determine the outgoing interface. Then the frame is forwarded out the correct port
	- Takes time
	- Slower and adds up
	- catches bad traffic
	- Does quality of service
	- detects errors
- **Cut-through switching**
	- This frame forwarding method forwards the frame before it is entirely received. At a minimum, the destination address of the frame must be read before the frame can be forwarded
	- VERY fast
	- only used in industry

### Cut-through switching
- the switch acts on data as soon as it is received
	- even if incomplete
	- does not preform any error checking
	- only buffers just enough to read the destination MAC address
- Two variants
	- **Fast-forward switching**
		- Offers the lowest level of latency by immediately forwarding a packet after reading the destination address
		- there may be times where a packets are relayed with errors
		- The destination NIC discards the faulty packet upon receipt
		- typical cut-through method of switching
		- fastest method
	- **Fragment-free switching**
		- A compromise between high latency and high integrity
		- switch stores and preforms an error check on the first 64 bytes of the frame before forwarding
		- most network errors and collusions occur during the first 64 bytes, this ensures that a collision has not occurred

## Memory Buffering on Switches
- An Ethernet switch may use a buffering technique to store frames before forwarding them or when the destination port is busy because of congestion. 
- Two types
	- **Port based memory**
		- Frames are stored in queues that are linked to specific incoming and outgoing ports.
		- A frame is transmitted to the outgoing port only when all the frames ahead in the queue have been successfully transmitted.
		- It is possible for a single frame to delay the transmission of all the frames in memory because of a busy destination port.
		- This delay occurs even if the other frames could be transmitted to open destination ports.
	- **Shared Memory**
		- Deposits all frames into a common memory buffer shared by all switch ports and the amount of buffer memory required by a port is dynamically allocated.
		- The frames in the buffer are dynamically linked to the destination port enabling a packet to be received on one port and then transmitted on another port, without moving it to a different queue.
- Shared memory buffering also results in larger frames that can be transmitted with fewer dropped frames. 
- This is important with asymmetric switching which allows for different data rates on different ports. Therefore, more bandwidth can be dedicated to certain ports (e.g., server port).

## Duplex and Speed Settings
- Two of the most basic settings on a switch are the bandwidth ("speed") and duplex settings for each individual switch port
- It is critical that the duplex and bandwidth settings match between the switch port and the connected devices

- There are two types of duplex settings used for communications on an Ethernet Network:
	- **Full-duplex** - Both ends of the connection can send and receive simultaneously
	- **Half-duplex** - Only one end of the connection can send at a time

- **Autonegotiation** is an optional function found on most ethernet switches and NICs
	- It enables two devices to automatically negotiate the best speed and duplex capabilities

- Gigabit Ethernet ports only operate in full-duplex

### Duplex and Speed Settings Cont.
- Duplex mismatch is one of the most common causes of performance issues on 10/100 Mbps Ethernet links.
	- It occurs when one port on the link operates at half-duplex while the other port operates at full-duplex.
	- This can occur when one or both ports on a link are reset, and the autonegotiation process does not result in both link partners having the same configuration. 
	- It also can occur when users reconfigure one side of a link and forget to reconfigure the other. 
	- Both sides of a link should have autonegotiation on, or both sides should have it off. Best practice is to configure both Ethernet switch ports as full-duplex.

## Auto-MDIX
- Connection between devices once required the sue of either a crossover or straight-through cable. The type of cable depended on the type of interconnecting devices
- A direct connection between a router and a host requires a cross-over connection
	- T568 A-A is a straight through cable
	- T568 A-B is a crossover cable

- Most switch devices now support the automatic medium-dependent interface crossover (auto-MDIX) feature. 
	- When enabled, the switch automatically detects the type of cable attached to the port and configures the interfaces accordingly
	- Most switch devices now support the automatic medium-dependent interface crossover (auto-MDIX) feature. 
	- When enabled, the switch automatically detects the type of cable attached to the port and configures the interfaces accordingly.